ALEPH(1)                                       General Commands Manual                                      ALEPH(1)



NAME
       aleph - extended Unicode TeX

SYNOPSIS
       aleph [options] [&format] [file|\commands]

DESCRIPTION
       Run  the  Aleph typesetter on file, usually creating file.dvi.  If the file argument has no extension, ".tex"
       will be appended to it.  Instead of a filename, a set of Aleph commands can be given, the first of which must
       start  with  a  backslash.   With a &format argument Aleph uses a different set of precompiled commands, con‐
       tained in format.fmt; it is usually better to use the -fmt format option instead.

       Aleph is a version of the TeX program modified for multilingual typesetting.  It uses Unicode, and has  addi‐
       tional primitives for (among other things) bidirectional typesetting.

       Aleph's command line options are similar to those of TeX.

       Aleph is no longer being actively developed; see LuaTeX for current activity.

OPTIONS
       Run aleph --help to see the complete list of options; this is not exhaustive.

       --fmt format
              Use format as the name of the format to be used, instead of the name by which Aleph was called or a %&
              line.

       --halt-on-error
              Exit with an error code when an error is encountered during processing.

       --help Print help message and exit.

       --ini  Be `initial' Aleph for dumping formats; this is implicitly true if the program is called as inialeph.

       --interaction mode
              Sets the interaction mode.  The mode can be one of batchmode, nonstopmode, scrollmode, and  errorstop‐
              mode.  The meaning of these modes is the same as that of the corresponding \commands.

       --ipc  Send DVI output to a socket as well as the usual output file.  Whether this option is available is the
              choice of the installer.

       --ipc-start
              As --ipc, and starts the server at the other end as well.  Whether this option  is  available  is  the
              choice of the installer.

       --kpathsea-debug bitmask
              Sets path searching debugging flags according to the bitmask.  See the Kpathsea manual for details.

       --maketex fmt
              Enable mktexfmt, where fmt must be one of tex or tfm.

       --no-maketex fmt
              Disable mktexfmt, where fmt must be one of tex or tfm.

       --output-comment string
              Use string for the DVI file comment instead of the date.

       --output-directory directory
              Write  output  files  in directory instead of the current directory.  Look up input files in directory
              first, the along the normal search path.

       --parse-first-line
              If the first line of the main input file begins with %& parse it to look for a dump name.

       --progname name
              Pretend to be program name.  This affects both the format used and the search paths.

       --recorder
              Enable the filename recorder.  This leaves a trace of the files opened for input and output in a  file
              with extension .ofl.  (This option is always on.)

       --shell-escape
              Enable  the  \write18{command}  construct.   The command can be any Bourne shell command.  By default,
              this construct is enabled in a restricted mode, for security reasons.

       --version
              Print version information and exit.

ENVIRONMENT
       See the Kpathsearch library documentation (the `Path specifications' node) for precise  details  of  how  the
       environment variables are used.  The kpsewhich utility can be used to query the values of the variables.

       One caveat: In most Aleph formats, you cannot use ~ in a filename you give directly to Aleph, because ~ is an
       active character, and hence is expanded, not taken as part of the filename.  Other programs,  such  as  Meta‐
       font, do not have this problem.

       TEXMFOUTPUT
              Normally,  Aleph  puts its output files in the current directory.  If any output file cannot be opened
              there, it tries to open it in the directory specified in the environment variable TEXMFOUTPUT.   There
              is no default value for that variable.  For example, if you say tex paper and the current directory is
              not writable, if TEXMFOUTPUT has  the  value  /tmp,  Aleph  attempts  to  create  /tmp/paper.log  (and
              /tmp/paper.dvi, if any output is produced.)  TEXMFOUTPUT is also checked for input files, as TeX often
              generates files that need to be subsequently read; for input, no suffixes (such as ``.tex'') are added
              by default, the input name is simply checked as given.

       TEXINPUTS
              Search  path for \input and \openin files.  This should start with ``.'', so that user files are found
              before system files.  An empty path component will be replaced with the paths defined in the texmf.cnf
              file.   For  example,  set  TEXINPUTS  to  ".:/home/user/tex:"  to  prepend  the  current direcory and
              ``/home/user/tex'' to the standard search path.

       TEXEDIT
              Command template for switching to editor.  The default, usually vi, is set when Aleph is compiled.

NOTES
       This manual page is not meant to be exhaustive.  The complete documentation for this version of Aleph can  be
       found in the info manual Web2C: A TeX implementation.  See http://tug/org/web2c.

BUGS
       This version of Aleph implements a number of optional extensions.  In fact, many of these extensions conflict
       to a greater or lesser extent with the definition of Aleph.  When such extensions  are  enabled,  the  banner
       printed when Aleph starts is changed to print Alephk instead of Aleph.

       This version of Aleph fails to trap arithmetic overflow when dimensions are added or subtracted.  Cases where
       this occurs are rare, but when it does the generated DVI file will be invalid.

SEE ALSO
       tex(1), mf(1)

AUTHORS
       The primary authors of Aleph are John Plaice and Yannis Haralambous.  It is currently maintained (for  severe
       bug fixes only) by Taco Hoekwater.



Web2C 2013                                          1 March 2011                                            ALEPH(1)
