ALSAMIXER(1)                                   General Commands Manual                                  ALSAMIXER(1)



NAME
       alsamixer - soundcard mixer for ALSA soundcard driver, with ncurses interface

SYNOPSIS
       alsamixer [options]


DESCRIPTION
       alsamixer  is  an  ncurses mixer program for use with the ALSA soundcard drivers. It supports multiple sound‐
       cards with multiple devices.


OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              Help: show available flags.


       -c, --card <card number or identification>
              Select the soundcard to use, if you have more than one. Cards are numbered from 0 (the default).


       -D, --device <device identification>
              Select the mixer device to control.


       -V, --view <mode>
              Select the starting view mode, either playback, capture or all.


       -g, --no-color
              Toggle the using of colors.


MIXER VIEWS
       The top-left corner of alsamixer is the are to show some basic information: the card  name,  the  mixer  chip
       name,  the  current  view  mode  and the currently selected mixer item.  When the mixer item is switched off,
       [Off] is displayed in its name.

       Volume bars are located below the basic information area.  You can scroll left/right when all controls  can't
       be  put in a single screen.  The name of each control is shown in the bottom below the volume bars.  The cur‐
       rently selected item is drawn in red and/of emphasized.

       Each mixer control with volume capability shows a box and the current volume filled in that box.  The  volume
       percentages  are  displayed  below  the volume bar for left and right channels.  For a mono control, only one
       value is shown there.

       When a mixer control is turned off, M (mute) appears below the volume bar.  When it's turned on, O  in  green
       appears instead.  You can toggle the switch via m key.

       When  a  mixer  control has capture capability, the capture flag appears below the volume bar, too.  When the
       capture is turned off, ------- is shown.  CAPTURE in red appears when the capture switch is  turned  on.   In
       addition,  L  and  R  letters  appear in left and right side to indicate that left and the right channels are
       turned on.

       Some controls have the enumeration list, and don't show boxes but only texts  which  indicate  the  currently
       active item.  You can change the item via up/down keys.


VIEW MODES
       alsamixer  has  three view modes: playback, capture and all.  In the playback view, only the controls related
       with playback are shown.  Similarly, only the controls for capture (recording) are shown in the capture view.
       The  all  view mode shows all controls.  The current view mode is displayed in the top-left position together
       with the mixer name, etc.

       The default view mode is the playback view.  You can change it via -V option.

       Each view mode can be switched via keyboard commands, too.  See the next section.


KEYBOARD COMMANDS
       alsamixer recognizes the following keyboard commands to control the soundcard.  Commands shown here in  upper
       case can also be given in lower case.  To be reminded of these keystrokes, hit the h key.


   General Controls
       The  Left  and right arrow keys are used to select the channel (or device, depending on your preferred termi‐
       nology). You can also use n ("next") and p ("previous").

       The Up and Down Arrows control the volume for the currently selected device. You can also use + or - for  the
       same  purpose.  Both  the  left  and  right signals are affected. For independent left and right control, see
       below.

       The B or = key adjusts the balance of volumes on left and right channels.

       M toggles muting for the current channel (both left and right).  If the hardware supports it,  you  can  mute
       left and right independently by using , (or <) and . (or >) respectively.

       SPACE enables recording for the current channel. If any other channels have recording enabled, they will have
       their recording function disabled first. This only works for valid input channels, of course.

       L re-draws the screen.


   View Mode Controls
       Function keys are used to change view modes.  You can switch to the help mode and the proc info mode  via  F1
       and  F2  keys, respectively.  On terminals that can't use function keys like gnome-terminal, ? and / keys can
       be used alternatively for help and proc modes.

       F3, F4 and F5 keys are used to switch to playback, capture and all view mode, respectively.  TAB key  toggles
       the current view mode circularly.


   Quick Volume Changes
       PageUp increases volume by 5.

       PageDown decreases volume by 5.

       End sets volume to 0.

       You can also control left & right levels for the current channel independently, as follows:

       [Q | W | E ]  -- turn UP [ left | both | right ]

       [Z | X | C ] -- turn DOWN [ left | both | right ]

       If  the  currently selected mixer channel is not a stereo channel, then all UP keys will work like W, and all
       DOWN keys will work like X.

       The number keys from 0 to 9 are to change the absolute volume quickly.  They correspond to 0 to 90% volume.


   Selecting the Sound Card
       You can select another sound card by pressing the F6 or S keys.  This will show a  list  of  available  sound
       cards to choose from, and an entry to enter the mixer device name by hand.


   Exiting
       Quit  the  program  with  ALT Q, or by hitting ESC.  Please note that you might need to hit ESC twice on some
       terminals since it's regarded as a prefix key.


VOLUME MAPPING
       In alsamixer, the volume is mapped to a value that is more natural for a human ear.  The mapping is  designed
       so that the position in the interval is proportional to the volume as a human ear would perceive it, i.e. the
       position is the cubic root of the linear sample multiplication factor.  For controls with a small  range  (24
       dB or less), the mapping is linear in the dB values so that each step has the same size visually.

       Only  for  controls  without  dB information, a linear mapping of the hardware volume register values is used
       (this is the same algorithm as used in the old alsamixer).


SEE ALSO
        amixer(1), aplay(1), arecord(1)


BUGS
       Some terminal emulators (e.g. nxterm) may not work quite right with ncurses, but that's their own damn fault.
       Plain old xterm seems to be fine.


AUTHOR
       alsamixer  has  been  written  by Tim Janik and been further improved by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz> and
       Clemens Ladisch <clemens@ladisch.de>.

       This manual page was provided by Paul Winkler <zarmzarm@erols.com>.



                                                     22 May 2009                                        ALSAMIXER(1)
