nvidia-persistenced(1)                         General Commands Manual                        nvidia-persistenced(1)



NAME
       nvidia-persistenced - A daemon to maintain persistent software state in the NVIDIA driver.


SYNOPSIS
       nvidia-persistenced


DESCRIPTION
       The  nvidia-persistenced utility is used to enable persistent software state in the NVIDIA driver.  When per‐
       sistence mode is enabled, the daemon prevents the driver from releasing device state when the device  is  not
       in use.  This can improve the startup time of new clients in this scenario.

OPTIONS
       -v, --version
              Print the utility version and exit.

       -h, --help
              Print usage information for the command line options and exit.

       -V, --verbose
              Controls  how  much information is printed. By default, nvidia-persistenced will only print errors and
              warnings to syslog for unexpected events, as well as startup and  shutdown  notices.  Specifying  this
              flag will cause nvidia-persistenced to also print notices to syslog on state transitions, such as when
              persistence mode is enabled or disabled, and informational messages on startup and exit.

       -u USERNAME, --user=USERNAME
              Runs nvidia-persistenced with the user permissions of the user specified  by  the  USERNAME  argument.
              This user must have write access to the /var/run/nvidia-persistenced directory. If this directory does
              not exist, nvidia-persistenced will attempt to create it prior to changing the process user and  group
              IDs.

       --persistence-mode, --no-persistence-mode
              By  default,  nvidia-persistenced starts with persistence mode enabled for all devices. Use '--no-per‐
              sistence-mode' to force persistence mode off for all devices on startup.

       --nvidia-cfg-path=PATH
              The nvidia-cfg library is used to communicate with the NVIDIA kernel module to query and  manage  GPUs
              in  the system. This library is required by nvidia-persistenced. This option tells nvidia-persistenced
              where to look for this library (in case it cannot find it on its own). This option should normally not
              be needed.


INSTALLATION
       When  installed  by nvidia-installer , sample init scripts to start the daemon for some of the more prevalent
       init systems are installed  as  the  compressed  tarball  /usr/share/doc/NVIDIA_GLX-1.0/sample/nvidia-persis‐
       tenced-init.tar.bz2.  These init scripts should be customized to the user's distribution and installed in the
       proper location by the user to run nvidia-persistenced on system initialization.

       Once the init script is installed so that the daemon is running, users should not normally need  to  manually
       interact  with nvidia-persistenced: the NVIDIA management utilities, such as nvidia-smi, can communicate with
       it automatically as necessary to manage persistence mode.

       See the "Using the nvidia-persistenced Utility" section of the NVIDIA Linux Graphics Driver README  for  more
       background, information about installing the nvidia-persistenced utility to run on system initialization, and
       troubleshooting tips.

PRIVILEGES
       The daemon does not require root privileges to run, and may safely be run as an unprivileged user, given that
       its  runtime directory, /var/run/nvidia-persistenced, is created for and owned by that user prior to starting
       the daemon.  nvidia-persistenced also requires read and write access to the NVIDIA  character  device  files.
       If  the  permissions  of  the  device  files  have  been  altered  through  any  of  the NVreg_DeviceFileUID,
       NVreg_DeviceFile_GID, or NVreg_DeviceFileMode NVIDIA kernel module options, nvidia-persistenced will need  to
       run as a suitable user.

       If  the  daemon  is  started with root privileges, the --user option may be used instead to indicate that the
       daemon should drop its privileges and run as the specified user  after  setting  up  its  runtime  directory.
       Using this option may cause the daemon to be unable to remove the /var/run/nvidia-persistenced directory when
       it is killed, if the specified user does not have write permissions to /var/run.   In  this  case,  directory
       removal   should  be  handled  by  a  post-execution  script.   See  the  sample  init  scripts  provided  in
       /usr/share/doc/NVIDIA_GLX-1.0/sample/nvidia-persistenced-init.tar.bz2 for examples of this behavior.

       The daemon indirectly utilizes nvidia-modprobe via the nvidia-cfg library to load the  NVIDIA  kernel  module
       and  create the NVIDIA character device files after the daemon has dropped its root privileges, if it had any
       to begin with.  If nvidia-modprobe is not installed, the daemon may not be able to start properly  if  it  is
       not run with root privileges.

OTHER
       The source code to nvidia-persistenced is available here: ⟨ftp://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/
       nvidia-persistenced/⟩

EXAMPLES
       nvidia-persistenced
              Starts the NVIDIA Persistence Daemon with persistence mode enabled for all NVIDIA devices.

       nvidia-persistenced --no-persistence-mode
              Starts the NVIDIA Persistence Daemon with persistence mode disabled for all NVIDIA devices.

       nvidia-persistenced --user=foo
              Starts the NVIDIA Persistence Daemon so that it will run as user 'foo'.


AUTHOR
       Will Davis
       NVIDIA Corporation


SEE ALSO
       nvidia-smi(1), nvidia-modprobe(1)


COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2013-2016 NVIDIA Corporation.



nvidia-persistenced 375.51                           2017-03-22                               nvidia-persistenced(1)
