apport-bug(1)                                  General Commands Manual                                 apport-bug(1)



NAME
       apport-bug, apport-collect - file a bug report using Apport, or update an existing report


SYNOPSIS
       apport-bug

       apport-bug symptom | pid | package | program path | .apport/.crash file

       apport-collect report-number


DESCRIPTION
       apport-bug  reports  problems  to  your  distribution's bug tracking system, using Apport to collect a lot of
       local information about your system to help the developers to fix the problem  and  avoid  unnecessary  ques‐
       tion/answer turnarounds.

       You  should  always start with running apport-bug without arguments, which will present a list of known symp‐
       toms. This will generate the most useful bug reports.

       If there is no matching symptom, you need to determine the affected program or package yourself. You can pro‐
       vide a package name or program name to apport-bug, e. g.:

           apport-bug firefox
           apport-bug /usr/bin/unzip

       In order to add more information to the bug report that could help the developers to fix the problem, you can
       also specify a process ID instead:

           $ pidof gnome-terminal
           5139
           $ apport-bug 5139

       As a special case, to report a bug against the Linux kernel, you do not need to use  the  full  package  name
       (such as linux-image-2.6.28-4-generic); you can just use

           apport-bug linux

       to report a bug against the currently running kernel.

       Finally, you can use this program to report a previously stored crash or bug report:

           apport-bug /var/crash/_bin_bash.1000.crash
           apport-bug /tmp/apport.firefox.332G9t.apport

       Bug reports can be written to a file by using the --save option  or by using apport-cli.

       apport-bug detects whether KDE or Gnome is running and calls apport-gtk or apport-kde accordingly. If neither
       is available, or the session does not run under X11, it calls apport-cli for a command-line client.


UPDATING EXISTING REPORTS
       apport-collect collects the same information as apport-bug, but adds it to an already  reported  problem  you
       have  submitted. This is useful if the report was not originally filed through Apport, and the developers ask
       you to attach information from your system.


OPTIONS
       Please see the apport-cli(1) manpage for possible options.


ENVIRONMENT
       APPORT_IGNORE_OBSOLETE_PACKAGES
              Apport refuses to create bug reports if the package or any dependency is not current. If this environ‐
              ment  variable  is  set,  this check is waived. Experts who will thoroughly check the situation before
              filing a bug report can define this in their ~/.bashrc or temporarily on the command line when calling
              apport-bug.


FILES
       apport crash files are written in to /var/crash by default, named uniquely per binary name and user id.  They
       are not deleted after being sent to the bug tracker (but from cron when they get older than 7 days). You  can
       extract the core file (if any) and other information using apport-unpack.


SEE ALSO
       apport-cli(1), apport-unpack(1)


AUTHOR
       apport and the accompanying tools are developed by Martin Pitt <martin.pitt@ubuntu.com>.



Martin Pitt                                      September 08, 2009                                    apport-bug(1)
