apport-cli(1)                                  General Commands Manual                                 apport-cli(1)



NAME
       apport-cli, apport-gtk, apport-kde - Apport user interfaces for reporting problems


SYNOPSIS
       apport-cli

       apport-cli [ --save file ] symptom | pid | package | program path | .apport/.crash file

       apport-cli -f

       apport-cli -f -p package -P pid

       apport-cli -u report-number

       Same options/arguments for apport-gtk and apport-kde.


DESCRIPTION
       apport  automatically collects data from crashed processes and compiles a problem report in /var/crash/. This
       is a command line frontend for reporting those crashes to the developers. It can also be used to report  bugs
       about packages or running processes.

       If  symptom  scripts  are available, it can also be given the name of a symptom, or be called with just -f to
       display a list of known symptoms.

       When being called without any options, it processes the pending crash reports and offers to report  them  one
       by one. You can also display the entire report to see what is sent to the software developers.

       When  being called with exactly one argument and no option, apport-cli uses some heuristics to find out "what
       you mean" and reports a bug against the given symptom name, package name, program path, or PID. If the  argu‐
       ment is a .crash or .apport file, it uploads the stored problem report to the bug tracking system.

       For  desktop  systems  with  a  graphical  user interface, you should consider installing the GTK or KDE user
       interface (apport-gtk or apport-kde). They accept the very same options and arguments.  apport-cli is  mainly
       intended to be used on servers.


OPTIONS
       -f, --file-bug
              Report  a  (non-crash)  problem. If neither --package, --symptom, or --pid are specified, then it dis‐
              plays a list of available symptoms. If none are available, it aborts with an error.

              This will automatically attach information about your operating system and the package version etc. to
              the bug report, so that the developers have some important context.


       -s symptom, --symptom=symptom
              When being used in --file-bug mode, specify the symptom to report the problem about.


       -p package, --package=package
              When being used in --file-bug mode, specify the package to report the problem against.


       -P pid, --pid=pid
              When  being  used  in --file-bug mode, specify the PID (process ID) of a running program to report the
              problem against. This can be determined with e. g.  ps -ux.


       -c report, --crash-file=report
              Upload a previously processed stored report in an arbitrary file location.  This is useful for copying
              a  crash  report  to a machine with internet connection and reporting it from there. Files must end in
              .crash or .apport.


       -u report-number, --update-report report-number
              Run apport information collection on an already existing problem report. The affected package is taken
              from  the  report by default, but you can explicitly specify one with --package to collect information
              for a different package (this is useful if the report is assigned to the wrong package).


       --save filename
              In --file-bug mode, save the collected information into a file instead of reporting it. This file  can
              then be reported with --crash-file later on.


       -w, --window
              Point  and click at the application window against which you wish to report the bug. Apport will auto‐
              matically find the package name and generate a report for you. This option can be specially useful  in
              situations  when  you  do  not  know the name of the package, or if the application window has stopped
              responding and you cannot report the problem from the "Help" menu of the application.


ENVIRONMENT
       APPORT_IGNORE_OBSOLETE_PACKAGES
              Apport refuses to create bug reports if the package or any dependency is not current. If this environ‐
              ment  variable  is  set,  this check is waived. Experts who will thoroughly check the situation before
              filing a bug report can define this in their ~/.bashrc or temporarily when calling the apport frontend
              (-cli, -gtk, or -kde).


FILES
       /usr/share/apport/symptoms/*.py
              Symptom  scripts. These ask a set of interactive questions to determine the package which is responsi‐
              ble for a particular problem. (For some problems like sound or storage device related bugs  there  are
              many  places  where things can go wrong, and it's not immediately obvious for a bug reporter where the
              problem is.)


AUTHOR
       apport and the accompanying tools are developed by Martin Pitt <martin.pitt@ubuntu.com>.



Martin Pitt                                        August 01, 2007                                     apport-cli(1)
