APT-FTPARCHIVE(1)                                        APT                                       APT-FTPARCHIVE(1)



NAME
       apt-ftparchive - Utility to generate index files

SYNOPSIS
       apt-ftparchive [-dsq] [--md5] [--delink] [--readonly] [--contents] [--arch architecture] [-o=config_string]
                      [-c=config_file] {packages path... [override-file [pathprefix]]  |
                      sources path... [override-file [pathprefix]]  | contents path  | release path  |
                      generate config_file section...  | clean config_file  | {-v | --version} | {-h | --help}}

DESCRIPTION
       apt-ftparchive is the command line tool that generates the index files that APT uses to access a distribution
       source. The index files should be generated on the origin site based on the content of that site.

       apt-ftparchive is a superset of the dpkg-scanpackages(1) program, incorporating its entire functionality via
       the packages command. It also contains a contents file generator, contents, and an elaborate means to
       'script' the generation process for a complete archive.

       Internally apt-ftparchive can make use of binary databases to cache the contents of a .deb file and it does
       not rely on any external programs aside from gzip(1). When doing a full generate it automatically performs
       file-change checks and builds the desired compressed output files.

       Unless the -h, or --help option is given, one of the commands below must be present.

       packages
           The packages command generates a package file from a directory tree. It takes the given directory and
           recursively searches it for .deb files, emitting a package record to stdout for each. This command is
           approximately equivalent to dpkg-scanpackages(1).

           The option --db can be used to specify a binary caching DB.

       sources
           The sources command generates a source index file from a directory tree. It takes the given directory and
           recursively searches it for .dsc files, emitting a source record to stdout for each. This command is
           approximately equivalent to dpkg-scansources(1).

           If an override file is specified then a source override file will be looked for with an extension of
           .src. The --source-override option can be used to change the source override file that will be used.

       contents
           The contents command generates a contents file from a directory tree. It takes the given directory and
           recursively searches it for .deb files, and reads the file list from each file. It then sorts and writes
           to stdout the list of files matched to packages. Directories are not written to the output. If multiple
           packages own the same file then each package is separated by a comma in the output.

           The option --db can be used to specify a binary caching DB.

       release
           The release command generates a Release file from a directory tree. It recursively searches the given
           directory for uncompressed Packages and Sources files and ones compressed with gzip, bzip2 or lzma as
           well as Release and md5sum.txt files by default (APT::FTPArchive::Release::Default-Patterns). Additional
           filename patterns can be added by listing them in APT::FTPArchive::Release::Patterns. It then writes to
           stdout a Release file containing an MD5, SHA1 and SHA256 digest for each file.

           Values for the additional metadata fields in the Release file are taken from the corresponding variables
           under APT::FTPArchive::Release, e.g.  APT::FTPArchive::Release::Origin. The supported fields are: Origin,
           Label, Suite, Version, Codename, Date, Valid-Until, Architectures, Components, Description.

       generate
           The generate command is designed to be runnable from a cron script and builds indexes according to the
           given config file. The config language provides a flexible means of specifying which index files are
           built from which directories, as well as providing a simple means of maintaining the required settings.

       clean
           The clean command tidies the databases used by the given configuration file by removing any records that
           are no longer necessary.

THE GENERATE CONFIGURATION
       The generate command uses a configuration file to describe the archives that are going to be generated. It
       follows the typical ISC configuration format as seen in ISC tools like bind 8 and dhcpd.  apt.conf(5)
       contains a description of the syntax. Note that the generate configuration is parsed in sectional manner, but
       apt.conf(5) is parsed in a tree manner. This only effects how the scope tag is handled.

       The generate configuration has four separate sections, each described below.

   Dir Section
       The Dir section defines the standard directories needed to locate the files required during the generation
       process. These directories are prepended certain relative paths defined in later sections to produce a
       complete an absolute path.

       ArchiveDir
           Specifies the root of the FTP archive, in a standard Debian configuration this is the directory that
           contains the ls-LR and dist nodes.

       OverrideDir
           Specifies the location of the override files.

       CacheDir
           Specifies the location of the cache files.

       FileListDir
           Specifies the location of the file list files, if the FileList setting is used below.

   Default Section
       The Default section specifies default values, and settings that control the operation of the generator. Other
       sections may override these defaults with a per-section setting.

       Packages::Compress
           Sets the default compression schemes to use for the package index files. It is a string that contains a
           space separated list of at least one of: '.' (no compression), 'gzip' and 'bzip2'. The default for all
           compression schemes is '. gzip'.

       Packages::Extensions
           Sets the default list of file extensions that are package files. This defaults to '.deb'.

       Sources::Compress
           This is similar to Packages::Compress except that it controls the compression for the Sources files.

       Sources::Extensions
           Sets the default list of file extensions that are source files. This defaults to '.dsc'.

       Contents::Compress
           This is similar to Packages::Compress except that it controls the compression for the Contents files.

       Translation::Compress
           This is similar to Packages::Compress except that it controls the compression for the Translation-en
           master file.

       DeLinkLimit
           Specifies the number of kilobytes to delink (and replace with hard links) per run. This is used in
           conjunction with the per-section External-Links setting.

       FileMode
           Specifies the mode of all created index files. It defaults to 0644. All index files are set to this mode
           with no regard to the umask.

       LongDescription
           Specifies whether long descriptions should be included in the Packages file or split out into a master
           Translation-en file.

   TreeDefault Section
       Sets defaults specific to Tree sections. All of these variables are substitution variables and have the
       strings $(DIST), $(SECTION) and $(ARCH) replaced with their respective values.

       MaxContentsChange
           Sets the number of kilobytes of contents files that are generated each day. The contents files are
           round-robined so that over several days they will all be rebuilt.

       ContentsAge
           Controls the number of days a contents file is allowed to be checked without changing. If this limit is
           passed the mtime of the contents file is updated. This case can occur if the package file is changed in
           such a way that does not result in a new contents file [override edit for instance]. A hold off is
           allowed in hopes that new .debs will be installed, requiring a new file anyhow. The default is 10, the
           units are in days.

       Directory
           Sets the top of the .deb directory tree. Defaults to $(DIST)/$(SECTION)/binary-$(ARCH)/

       SrcDirectory
           Sets the top of the source package directory tree. Defaults to $(DIST)/$(SECTION)/source/

       Packages
           Sets the output Packages file. Defaults to $(DIST)/$(SECTION)/binary-$(ARCH)/Packages

       Sources
           Sets the output Sources file. Defaults to $(DIST)/$(SECTION)/source/Sources

       Translation
           Sets the output Translation-en master file with the long descriptions if they should be not included in
           the Packages file. Defaults to $(DIST)/$(SECTION)/i18n/Translation-en

       InternalPrefix
           Sets the path prefix that causes a symlink to be considered an internal link instead of an external link.
           Defaults to $(DIST)/$(SECTION)/

       Contents
           Sets the output Contents file. Defaults to $(DIST)/$(SECTION)/Contents-$(ARCH). If this setting causes
           multiple Packages files to map onto a single Contents file (as is the default) then apt-ftparchive will
           integrate those package files together automatically.

       Contents::Header
           Sets header file to prepend to the contents output.

       BinCacheDB
           Sets the binary cache database to use for this section. Multiple sections can share the same database.

       FileList
           Specifies that instead of walking the directory tree, apt-ftparchive should read the list of files from
           the given file. Relative files names are prefixed with the archive directory.

       SourceFileList
           Specifies that instead of walking the directory tree, apt-ftparchive should read the list of files from
           the given file. Relative files names are prefixed with the archive directory. This is used when
           processing source indexes.

   Tree Section
       The Tree section defines a standard Debian file tree which consists of a base directory, then multiple
       sections in that base directory and finally multiple Architectures in each section. The exact pathing used is
       defined by the Directory substitution variable.

       The Tree section takes a scope tag which sets the $(DIST) variable and defines the root of the tree (the path
       is prefixed by ArchiveDir). Typically this is a setting such as dists/wheezy.

       All of the settings defined in the TreeDefault section can be used in a Tree section as well as three new
       variables.

       When processing a Tree section apt-ftparchive performs an operation similar to:

           for i in Sections do
              for j in Architectures do
                 Generate for DIST=scope SECTION=i ARCH=j



       Sections
           This is a space separated list of sections which appear under the distribution; typically this is
           something like main contrib non-free

       Architectures
           This is a space separated list of all the architectures that appear under search section. The special
           architecture 'source' is used to indicate that this tree has a source archive.

       LongDescription
           Specifies whether long descriptions should be included in the Packages file or split out into a master
           Translation-en file.

       BinOverride
           Sets the binary override file. The override file contains section, priority and maintainer address
           information.

       SrcOverride
           Sets the source override file. The override file contains section information.

       ExtraOverride
           Sets the binary extra override file.

       SrcExtraOverride
           Sets the source extra override file.

   BinDirectory Section
       The bindirectory section defines a binary directory tree with no special structure. The scope tag specifies
       the location of the binary directory and the settings are similar to the Tree section with no substitution
       variables or SectionArchitecture settings.

       Packages
           Sets the Packages file output.

       Sources
           Sets the Sources file output. At least one of Packages or Sources is required.

       Contents
           Sets the Contents file output (optional).

       BinOverride
           Sets the binary override file.

       SrcOverride
           Sets the source override file.

       ExtraOverride
           Sets the binary extra override file.

       SrcExtraOverride
           Sets the source extra override file.

       BinCacheDB
           Sets the cache DB.

       PathPrefix
           Appends a path to all the output paths.

       FileList, SourceFileList
           Specifies the file list file.

THE BINARY OVERRIDE FILE
       The binary override file is fully compatible with dpkg-scanpackages(1). It contains four fields separated by
       spaces. The first field is the package name, the second is the priority to force that package to, the third
       is the section to force that package to and the final field is the maintainer permutation field.

       The general form of the maintainer field is:

           old [// oldn]* => new

       or simply,

           new

       The first form allows a double-slash separated list of old email addresses to be specified. If any of those
       are found then new is substituted for the maintainer field. The second form unconditionally substitutes the
       maintainer field.

THE SOURCE OVERRIDE FILE
       The source override file is fully compatible with dpkg-scansources(1). It contains two fields separated by
       spaces. The first field is the source package name, the second is the section to assign it.

THE EXTRA OVERRIDE FILE
       The extra override file allows any arbitrary tag to be added or replaced in the output. It has three columns,
       the first is the package, the second is the tag and the remainder of the line is the new value.

OPTIONS
       All command line options may be set using the configuration file, the descriptions indicate the configuration
       option to set. For boolean options you can override the config file by using something like -f-,--no-f, -f=no
       or several other variations.

       --md5, --sha1, --sha256
           Generate the given checksum. These options default to on, when turned off the generated index files will
           not have the checksum fields where possible. Configuration Items: APT::FTPArchive::Checksum and
           APT::FTPArchive::Index::Checksum where Index can be Packages, Sources or Release and Checksum can be MD5,
           SHA1 or SHA256.

       -d, --db
           Use a binary caching DB. This has no effect on the generate command. Configuration Item:
           APT::FTPArchive::DB.

       -q, --quiet
           Quiet; produces output suitable for logging, omitting progress indicators. More q's will produce more
           quiet up to a maximum of 2. You can also use -q=# to set the quiet level, overriding the configuration
           file. Configuration Item: quiet.

       --delink
           Perform Delinking. If the External-Links setting is used then this option actually enables delinking of
           the files. It defaults to on and can be turned off with --no-delink. Configuration Item:
           APT::FTPArchive::DeLinkAct.

       --contents
           Perform contents generation. When this option is set and package indexes are being generated with a cache
           DB then the file listing will also be extracted and stored in the DB for later use. When using the
           generate command this option also allows the creation of any Contents files. The default is on.
           Configuration Item: APT::FTPArchive::Contents.

       -s, --source-override
           Select the source override file to use with the sources command. Configuration Item:
           APT::FTPArchive::SourceOverride.

       --readonly
           Make the caching databases read only. Configuration Item: APT::FTPArchive::ReadOnlyDB.

       -a, --arch
           Accept in the packages and contents commands only package files matching *_arch.deb or *_all.deb instead
           of all package files in the given path. Configuration Item: APT::FTPArchive::Architecture.

       APT::FTPArchive::AlwaysStat
           apt-ftparchive(1) caches as much as possible of metadata in a cachedb. If packages are recompiled and/or
           republished with the same version again, this will lead to problems as the now outdated cached metadata
           like size and checksums will be used. With this option enabled this will no longer happen as it will be
           checked if the file was changed. Note that this option is set to "false" by default as it is not
           recommend to upload multiply versions/builds of a package with the same versionnumber, so in theory
           nobody will have these problems and therefore all these extra checks are useless.

       APT::FTPArchive::LongDescription
           This configuration option defaults to "true" and should only be set to "false" if the Archive generated
           with apt-ftparchive(1) also provides Translation files. Note that the Translation-en master file can only
           be created in the generate command.

       -h, --help
           Show a short usage summary.

       -v, --version
           Show the program version.

       -c, --config-file
           Configuration File; Specify a configuration file to use. The program will read the default configuration
           file and then this configuration file. If configuration settings need to be set before the default
           configuration files are parsed specify a file with the APT_CONFIG environment variable. See apt.conf(5)
           for syntax information.

       -o, --option
           Set a Configuration Option; This will set an arbitrary configuration option. The syntax is -o
           Foo::Bar=bar.  -o and --option can be used multiple times to set different options.

EXAMPLES
       To create a compressed Packages file for a directory containing binary packages (.deb):

           apt-ftparchive packages directory | gzip > Packages.gz

SEE ALSO
       apt.conf(5)

DIAGNOSTICS
       apt-ftparchive returns zero on normal operation, decimal 100 on error.

BUGS
       APT bug page[1]. If you wish to report a bug in APT, please see /usr/share/doc/debian/bug-reporting.txt or
       the reportbug(1) command.

AUTHORS
       Jason Gunthorpe

       APT team

NOTES
        1. APT bug page
           http://bugs.debian.org/src:apt



APT 1.0.1ubuntu2                                    09 June 2012                                   APT-FTPARCHIVE(1)
