APT-EXTRACTTEMPLATE(1)                                   APT                                  APT-EXTRACTTEMPLATE(1)



NAME
       apt-extracttemplates - Utility to extract debconf config and templates from Debian packages

SYNOPSIS
       apt-extracttemplates [-t=temporary_directory] filename... {-v | --version} {-h | --help}

DESCRIPTION
       apt-extracttemplates will take one or more Debian package files as input and write out (to a temporary
       directory) all associated config scripts and template files. For each passed in package that contains config
       scripts and templates, one line of output will be generated in the format:

       package version template-file config-script

       template-file and config-script are written to the temporary directory specified by the -t or --tempdir
       (APT::ExtractTemplates::TempDir) directory, with filenames of the form package.template.XXXXXX and
       package.config.XXXXXX

OPTIONS
       All command line options may be set using the configuration file, the descriptions indicate the configuration
       option to set. For boolean options you can override the config file by using something like -f-,--no-f, -f=no
       or several other variations.

       -t, --tempdir
           Temporary directory in which to write extracted debconf template files and config scripts. Configuration
           Item: APT::ExtractTemplates::TempDir

       -h, --help
           Show a short usage summary.

       -v, --version
           Show the program version.

       -c, --config-file
           Configuration File; Specify a configuration file to use. The program will read the default configuration
           file and then this configuration file. If configuration settings need to be set before the default
           configuration files are parsed specify a file with the APT_CONFIG environment variable. See apt.conf(5)
           for syntax information.

       -o, --option
           Set a Configuration Option; This will set an arbitrary configuration option. The syntax is -o
           Foo::Bar=bar.  -o and --option can be used multiple times to set different options.

SEE ALSO
       apt.conf(5)

DIAGNOSTICS
       apt-extracttemplates returns zero on normal operation, decimal 100 on error.

BUGS
       APT bug page[1]. If you wish to report a bug in APT, please see /usr/share/doc/debian/bug-reporting.txt or
       the reportbug(1) command.

AUTHORS
       Jason Gunthorpe

       APT team

NOTES
        1. APT bug page
           http://bugs.debian.org/src:apt



APT 1.0.1ubuntu2                                    09 June 2012                              APT-EXTRACTTEMPLATE(1)
