ARECORDMIDI(1)                                 General Commands Manual                                ARECORDMIDI(1)



NAME
       arecordmidi - record Standard MIDI Files


SYNOPSIS
       arecordmidi -p client:port[,...] [options] midifile


DESCRIPTION
       arecordmidi  is  a  command-line  utility  that  records a Standard MIDI File from one or more ALSA sequencer
       ports.

       To stop recording, press Ctrl+C.


OPTIONS
       -h,--help
              Prints a list of options.


       -V,--version
              Prints the current version.


       -l,--list
              Prints a list of possible input ports.


       -p,--port=client:port,...
              Sets the sequencer port(s) from which events are recorded.

              A client can be specified by its number, its name, or a prefix of its name. A port is specified by its
              number; for port 0 of a client, the ":0" part of the port specification can be omitted.


       -b,--bpm=beats
              Sets the musical tempo of the MIDI file, in beats per minute.  The default value is 120 BPM.


       -f,--fps=frames
              Sets  the  SMPTE  resolution,  in  frames per second.  Possible values are 24, 25, 29.97 (for 30 drop-
              frame), and 30.


       -t,--ticks=ticks
              Sets the resolution of timestamps (ticks) in the MIDI file, in ticks  per  beat  (when  using  musical
              tempo)  or  ticks  per  frame  (when  using  SMPTE timing).  The default value is 384 ticks/beat or 40
              ticks/frame, respectively.


       -s,--split-channels
              Specifies that the data for each MIDI channel should be written to a separate track in the MIDI  file.
              This will result in a "format 1" file.  Otherwise, when there is only one track, arecordmidi will gen‐
              erate a "format 0" file.


       -m,--metronome=client:port
              Plays a metronome signal on the specified sequencer port.

              Metronome sounds are played on channel 10, MIDI notes 33 & 34 (GM2/GS/XG  metronome  standard  notes),
              with velocity 100 and duration 1.


       -i,--timesig=numerator:denominator
              Sets the time signature for the MIDI file and metronome.

              The  time signature is specified as usual with two numbers, representing the numerator and denominator
              of the time signature as it would be notated. The denominator must be a power  of  two.  Both  numbers
              should be separated by a colon. The time signature is 4:4 by default.


AUTHOR
       Clemens Ladisch <clemens@ladisch.de>



                                                     17 Sep 2007                                      ARECORDMIDI(1)
