aseqnet(1)                                     General Commands Manual                                    aseqnet(1)



NAME
       aseqnet - ALSA sequencer connectors over network


SYNOPSIS
       aseqnet [remotehost]


DESCRIPTION
       aseqnet  is  an ALSA sequencer client which sends and receives event packets over network.  Suppose two hosts
       connected by network, hostA as a server and hostB as a client.  The ALSA sequencer system must be running  on
       both hosts.  For creating the server port, run the following on hostA:

           hostA% aseqnet
           sequencer opened: 128:0

       Then  a  user  client  128  with port 0 was opened on hostA.  (The client number may vary.)  For creating the
       (network-)client port, run aseqnet with the hostname of the server:

           hostB% aseqnet hostA
           sequencer opened: 132:0

       Now all events sent to hostA:128:0 are transferred to hostB:132:0, and vice versa.

       The ports created by aseqnet can be connected arbitrary to other sequencer ports via aconnect(1).  For  exam‐
       ple, to connect hostB:132:0 to a MIDI output device 65:0:

           hostB% aconnect 132:0 65:0

       Then events to hostA:128:0 will be delivered to hostB:65:0.  The following command plays MIDI on hostB.

           hostA% pmidi -p 128:0 foo.mid

       The  multiple clients may exist simultaneously.  If hostC is connected as a client to hostA, events from from
       hostA are sent to all connected network clients, i.e. hostB and  hostC.   However,  only  one  connection  is
       allowed from a client to a server.

       To  disconnect  network, stop all clients before server by ctrl-C or sending signal to them.  The server will
       automatically quit.


OPTIONS
       -p port
              Specify the TCP port number or TCP service name.

       -s addr
              Subscribe to the given address for read automatically.

       -d addr
              Subscribe to the given address for write automatically.

       -v     Verbose mode.


SEE ALSO
       aconnect(1), pmidi(1)


AUTHOR
       Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>.



                                                   January 1, 2000                                        aseqnet(1)
