BASH(1)                                        General Commands Manual                                       BASH(1)



NAME
       bash - GNU Bourne-Again SHell

SYNOPSIS
       bash [options] [command_string | file]

COPYRIGHT
       Bash is Copyright (C) 1989-2013 by the Free Software Foundation, Inc.

DESCRIPTION
       Bash  is an sh-compatible command language interpreter that executes commands read from the standard input or
       from a file.  Bash also incorporates useful features from the Korn and C shells (ksh and csh).

       Bash is intended to be a conformant implementation of the Shell and Utilities portion of the IEEE POSIX spec‐
       ification (IEEE Standard 1003.1).  Bash can be configured to be POSIX-conformant by default.

OPTIONS
       All  of  the   single-character shell options documented in the description of the set builtin command can be
       used as options when the shell is invoked.  In addition, bash interprets the following  options  when  it  is
       invoked:

       -c        If  the  -c  option  is  present,  then  commands  are read from the first non-option argument com‐
                 mand_string.  If there are arguments after the command_string, they are assigned to the  positional
                 parameters, starting with $0.
       -i        If the -i option is present, the shell is interactive.
       -l        Make bash act as if it had been invoked as a login shell (see INVOCATION below).
       -r        If the -r option is present, the shell becomes restricted (see RESTRICTED SHELL below).
       -s        If  the  -s option is present, or if no arguments remain after option processing, then commands are
                 read from the standard input.  This option allows the positional parameters to be set when invoking
                 an interactive shell.
       -D        A list of all double-quoted strings preceded by $ is printed on the standard output.  These are the
                 strings that are subject to language translation when the current locale is not C or  POSIX.   This
                 implies the -n option; no commands will be executed.
       [-+]O [shopt_option]
                 shopt_option  is one of the shell options accepted by the shopt builtin (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS
                 below).  If shopt_option is present,  -O  sets  the  value  of  that  option;  +O  unsets  it.   If
                 shopt_option  is  not  supplied,  the  names  and values of the shell options accepted by shopt are
                 printed on the standard output.  If the invocation option is +O, the output is displayed in a  for‐
                 mat that may be reused as input.
       --        A -- signals the end of options and disables further option processing.  Any arguments after the --
                 are treated as filenames and arguments.  An argument of - is equivalent to --.

       Bash also interprets a number of multi-character options.  These options must  appear  on  the  command  line
       before the single-character options to be recognized.

       --debugger
              Arrange  for the debugger profile to be executed before the shell starts.  Turns on extended debugging
              mode (see the description of the extdebug option to the shopt builtin below).
       --dump-po-strings
              Equivalent to -D, but the output is in the GNU gettext po (portable object) file format.
       --dump-strings
              Equivalent to -D.
       --help Display a usage message on standard output and exit successfully.
       --init-file file
       --rcfile file
              Execute commands from file instead of the system wide initialization  file  /etc/bash.bashrc  and  the
              standard personal initialization file ~/.bashrc if the shell is interactive (see INVOCATION below).

       --login
              Equivalent to -l.

       --noediting
              Do not use the GNU readline library to read command lines when the shell is interactive.

       --noprofile
              Do  not  read  either  the system-wide startup file /etc/profile or any of the personal initialization
              files ~/.bash_profile, ~/.bash_login, or ~/.profile.  By default, bash reads these files  when  it  is
              invoked as a login shell (see INVOCATION below).

       --norc Do not read and execute the system wide initialization file /etc/bash.bashrc and the personal initial‐
              ization file ~/.bashrc if the shell is interactive.  This option is on by  default  if  the  shell  is
              invoked as sh.

       --posix
              Change  the  behavior of bash where the default operation differs from the POSIX standard to match the
              standard (posix mode).  See SEE ALSO below for a reference to a document that details how  posix  mode
              affects bash's behavior.

       --restricted
              The shell becomes restricted (see RESTRICTED SHELL below).

       --verbose
              Equivalent to  -v.

       --version
              Show version information for this instance of bash on the standard output and exit successfully.

ARGUMENTS
       If  arguments  remain  after  option  processing, and neither the -c nor the -s option has been supplied, the
       first argument is assumed to be the name of a file containing shell commands.  If bash  is  invoked  in  this
       fashion, $0 is set to the name of the file, and the positional parameters are set to the remaining arguments.
       Bash reads and executes commands from this file, then exits.  Bash's exit status is the exit  status  of  the
       last command executed in the script.  If no commands are executed, the exit status is 0.  An attempt is first
       made to open the file in the current directory, and, if no file is found, then the shell searches the  direc‐
       tories in PATH for the script.

INVOCATION
       A login shell is one whose first character of argument zero is a -, or one started with the --login option.

       An  interactive  shell  is  one started without non-option arguments and without the -c option whose standard
       input and error are both connected to terminals (as determined by isatty(3)), or  one  started  with  the  -i
       option.   PS1  is  set and $- includes i if bash is interactive, allowing a shell script or a startup file to
       test this state.

       The following paragraphs describe how bash executes its startup files.  If any of the files exist but  cannot
       be read, bash reports an error.  Tildes are expanded in filenames as described below under Tilde Expansion in
       the EXPANSION section.

       When bash is invoked as an interactive login shell, or as a non-interactive shell with the --login option, it
       first  reads and executes commands from the file /etc/profile, if that file exists.  After reading that file,
       it looks for ~/.bash_profile, ~/.bash_login, and ~/.profile, in that order, and reads and  executes  commands
       from the first one that exists and is readable.  The --noprofile option may be used when the shell is started
       to inhibit this behavior.

       When a login shell exits, bash reads and executes commands from the file ~/.bash_logout, if it exists.

       When an interactive shell that is not a login shell  is  started,  bash  reads  and  executes  commands  from
       /etc/bash.bashrc and ~/.bashrc, if these files exist.  This may be inhibited by using the --norc option.  The
       --rcfile file option will force bash to read and execute commands from file instead of  /etc/bash.bashrc  and
       ~/.bashrc.

       When  bash  is  started  non-interactively,  to  run  a  shell script, for example, it looks for the variable
       BASH_ENV in the environment, expands its value if it appears there, and uses the expanded value as  the  name
       of a file to read and execute.  Bash behaves as if the following command were executed:
              if [ -n "$BASH_ENV" ]; then . "$BASH_ENV"; fi
       but the value of the PATH variable is not used to search for the filename.

       If  bash  is invoked with the name sh, it tries to mimic the startup behavior of historical versions of sh as
       closely as possible, while conforming to the POSIX standard as well.  When invoked as  an  interactive  login
       shell,  or  a  non-interactive  shell with the --login option, it first attempts to read and execute commands
       from /etc/profile and ~/.profile, in that order.  The --noprofile option may be used to inhibit  this  behav‐
       ior.   When  invoked  as  an interactive shell with the name sh, bash looks for the variable ENV, expands its
       value if it is defined, and uses the expanded value as the name of a file to read and execute.  Since a shell
       invoked as sh does not attempt to read and execute commands from any other startup files, the --rcfile option
       has no effect.  A non-interactive shell invoked with the name sh does not attempt to read any  other  startup
       files.  When invoked as sh, bash enters posix mode after the startup files are read.

       When  bash  is  started in posix mode, as with the --posix command line option, it follows the POSIX standard
       for startup files.  In this mode, interactive shells expand the ENV variable and commands are read  and  exe‐
       cuted from the file whose name is the expanded value.  No other startup files are read.

       Bash attempts to determine when it is being run with its standard input connected to a network connection, as
       when executed by the remote shell daemon, usually rshd, or the secure shell daemon sshd.  If bash  determines
       it  is being run in this fashion, it reads and executes commands from ~/.bashrc and ~/.bashrc, if these files
       exist and are readable.  It will not do this if invoked as sh.  The --norc option may be used to inhibit this
       behavior,  and  the  --rcfile  option may be used to force another file to be read, but neither rshd nor sshd
       generally invoke the shell with those options or allow them to be specified.

       If the shell is started with the effective user (group) id not equal to the real user (group) id, and the  -p
       option  is  not  supplied, no startup files are read, shell functions are not inherited from the environment,
       the SHELLOPTS, BASHOPTS, CDPATH, and GLOBIGNORE variables, if they appear in the  environment,  are  ignored,
       and  the  effective  user  id  is  set  to the real user id.  If the -p option is supplied at invocation, the
       startup behavior is the same, but the effective user id is not reset.

DEFINITIONS
       The following definitions are used throughout the rest of this document.
       blank  A space or tab.
       word   A sequence of characters considered as a single unit by the shell.  Also known as a token.
       name   A word consisting only of alphanumeric characters and underscores, and beginning  with  an  alphabetic
              character or an underscore.  Also referred to as an identifier.
       metacharacter
              A character that, when unquoted, separates words.  One of the following:
              |  & ; ( ) < > space tab
       control operator
              A token that performs a control function.  It is one of the following symbols:
              || & && ; ;; ( ) | |& <newline>

RESERVED WORDS
       Reserved  words  are  words  that have a special meaning to the shell.  The following words are recognized as
       reserved when unquoted and either the first word of a simple command (see SHELL GRAMMAR below) or  the  third
       word of a case or for command:

       ! case  coproc  do done elif else esac fi for function if in select then until while { } time [[ ]]

SHELL GRAMMAR
   Simple Commands
       A  simple  command is a sequence of optional variable assignments followed by blank-separated words and redi‐
       rections, and terminated by a control operator.  The first word specifies the command to be executed, and  is
       passed as argument zero.  The remaining words are passed as arguments to the invoked command.

       The return value of a simple command is its exit status, or 128+n if the command is terminated by signal n.

   Pipelines
       A pipeline is a sequence of one or more commands separated by one of the control operators | or |&.  The for‐
       mat for a pipeline is:

              [time [-p]] [ ! ] command [ [|⎪|&] command2 ... ]

       The standard output of command is connected via a pipe to the standard input of command2.  This connection is
       performed before any redirections specified by the command (see REDIRECTION below).  If |& is used, command's
       standard error, in addition to its standard output, is connected to command2's  standard  input  through  the
       pipe;  it is shorthand for 2>&1 |.  This implicit redirection of the standard error to the standard output is
       performed after any redirections specified by the command.

       The return status of a pipeline is the exit status of  the  last  command,  unless  the  pipefail  option  is
       enabled.   If  pipefail is enabled, the pipeline's return status is the value of the last (rightmost) command
       to exit with a non-zero status, or zero if all commands exit successfully.  If the reserved word !   precedes
       a  pipeline,  the exit status of that pipeline is the logical negation of the exit status as described above.
       The shell waits for all commands in the pipeline to terminate before returning a value.

       If the time reserved word precedes a pipeline, the elapsed as well as user and system time  consumed  by  its
       execution  are reported when the pipeline terminates.  The -p option changes the output format to that speci‐
       fied by POSIX.  When the shell is in posix mode, it does not recognize time as a reserved word  if  the  next
       token begins with a `-'.  The TIMEFORMAT variable may be set to a format string that specifies how the timing
       information should be displayed; see the description of TIMEFORMAT under Shell Variables below.

       When the shell is in posix mode, time may be followed by a newline.  In this case,  the  shell  displays  the
       total  user  and  system time consumed by the shell and its children.  The TIMEFORMAT variable may be used to
       specify the format of the time information.

       Each command in a pipeline is executed as a separate process (i.e., in a subshell).

   Lists
       A list is a sequence of one or more pipelines separated by one of the operators ;, &, &&, or ||, and  option‐
       ally terminated by one of ;, &, or <newline>.

       Of these list operators, && and || have equal precedence, followed by ; and &, which have equal precedence.

       A sequence of one or more newlines may appear in a list instead of a semicolon to delimit commands.

       If  a  command is terminated by the control operator &, the shell executes the command in the background in a
       subshell.  The shell does not wait for the command to finish, and the return status is 0.  Commands separated
       by  a  ; are executed sequentially; the shell waits for each command to terminate in turn.  The return status
       is the exit status of the last command executed.

       AND and OR lists are sequences of one of more pipelines separated by the && and || control operators, respec‐
       tively.  AND and OR lists are executed with left associativity.  An AND list has the form

              command1 && command2

       command2 is executed if, and only if, command1 returns an exit status of zero.

       An OR list has the form

              command1 || command2

       command2 is executed if and only if command1 returns a non-zero exit status.  The return status of AND and OR
       lists is the exit status of the last command executed in the list.

   Compound Commands
       A compound command is one of the following.  In most cases a list in a command's description may be separated
       from  the  rest  of the command by one or more newlines, and may be followed by a newline in place of a semi‐
       colon.

       (list) list is executed in a subshell  environment  (see  COMMAND  EXECUTION  ENVIRONMENT  below).   Variable
              assignments and builtin commands that affect the shell's environment do not remain in effect after the
              command completes.  The return status is the exit status of list.

       { list; }
              list is simply executed in the current shell environment.  list must be terminated with a  newline  or
              semicolon.   This  is  known  as a group command.  The return status is the exit status of list.  Note
              that unlike the metacharacters ( and ), { and } are reserved words and must  occur  where  a  reserved
              word is permitted to be recognized.  Since they do not cause a word break, they must be separated from
              list by whitespace or another shell metacharacter.

       ((expression))
              The expression is evaluated according to the rules described below under  ARITHMETIC  EVALUATION.   If
              the  value  of  the  expression is non-zero, the return status is 0; otherwise the return status is 1.
              This is exactly equivalent to let "expression".

       [[ expression ]]
              Return a status of 0 or 1 depending on  the  evaluation  of  the  conditional  expression  expression.
              Expressions  are composed of the primaries described below under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS.  Word split‐
              ting and pathname expansion are not performed on the words between the [[  and  ]];  tilde  expansion,
              parameter  and  variable  expansion, arithmetic expansion, command substitution, process substitution,
              and quote removal are performed.  Conditional operators such as -f must be unquoted to  be  recognized
              as primaries.

              When used with [[, the < and > operators sort lexicographically using the current locale.

       See  the  description  of the test builtin command (section SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below) for the handling of
       parameters (i.e.  missing parameters).

       When the == and != operators are used, the string to the right of the operator is considered  a  pattern  and
       matched  according  to  the rules described below under Pattern Matching, as if the extglob shell option were
       enabled.  The = operator is equivalent to ==.  If the shell option nocasematch is enabled, the match is  per‐
       formed without regard to the case of alphabetic characters.  The return value is 0 if the string matches (==)
       or does not match (!=) the pattern, and 1 otherwise.  Any part of the pattern may  be  quoted  to  force  the
       quoted portion to be matched as a string.

       An additional binary operator, =~, is available, with the same precedence as == and !=.  When it is used, the
       string to the right of the operator is considered an extended regular expression and matched accordingly  (as
       in  regex(3)).   The  return  value  is 0 if the string matches the pattern, and 1 otherwise.  If the regular
       expression is syntactically incorrect, the conditional expression's return value is 2.  If the  shell  option
       nocasematch is enabled, the match is performed without regard to the case of alphabetic characters.  Any part
       of the pattern may be quoted to force the quoted portion to be matched as a string.  Bracket  expressions  in
       regular  expressions  must  be treated carefully, since normal quoting characters lose their meanings between
       brackets.  If the pattern is stored in a shell variable, quoting the variable  expansion  forces  the  entire
       pattern  to  be  matched  as a string.  Substrings matched by parenthesized subexpressions within the regular
       expression are saved in the array variable BASH_REMATCH.  The element of BASH_REMATCH with  index  0  is  the
       portion  of  the  string matching the entire regular expression.  The element of BASH_REMATCH with index n is
       the portion of the string matching the nth parenthesized subexpression.

       Expressions may be combined using the following operators, listed in decreasing order of precedence:

              ( expression )
                     Returns the value of expression.  This may be used to override the normal precedence of  opera‐
                     tors.
              ! expression
                     True if expression is false.
              expression1 && expression2
                     True if both expression1 and expression2 are true.
              expression1 || expression2
                     True if either expression1 or expression2 is true.

              The  &&  and  ||  operators  do  not evaluate expression2 if the value of expression1 is sufficient to
              determine the return value of the entire conditional expression.

       for name [ [ in [ word ... ] ] ; ] do list ; done
              The list of words following in is expanded, generating a list of items.  The variable name is  set  to
              each element of this list in turn, and list is executed each time.  If the in word is omitted, the for
              command executes list once for each positional parameter that is  set  (see  PARAMETERS  below).   The
              return  status  is  the  exit status of the last command that executes.  If the expansion of the items
              following in results in an empty list, no commands are executed, and the return status is 0.

       for (( expr1 ; expr2 ; expr3 )) ; do list ; done
              First, the arithmetic expression expr1 is evaluated according  to  the  rules  described  below  under
              ARITHMETIC  EVALUATION.   The arithmetic expression expr2 is then evaluated repeatedly until it evalu‐
              ates to zero.  Each time expr2 evaluates to a non-zero value, list  is  executed  and  the  arithmetic
              expression expr3 is evaluated.  If any expression is omitted, it behaves as if it evaluates to 1.  The
              return value is the exit status of the last command in list that is executed, or false if any  of  the
              expressions is invalid.

       select name [ in word ] ; do list ; done
              The  list of words following in is expanded, generating a list of items.  The set of expanded words is
              printed on the standard error, each preceded by a number.  If the in word is omitted,  the  positional
              parameters  are printed (see PARAMETERS below).  The PS3 prompt is then displayed and a line read from
              the standard input.  If the line consists of a number corresponding to one  of  the  displayed  words,
              then  the value of name is set to that word.  If the line is empty, the words and prompt are displayed
              again.  If EOF is read, the command completes.  Any other value read causes name to be  set  to  null.
              The line read is saved in the variable REPLY.  The list is executed after each selection until a break
              command is executed.  The exit status of select is the exit status of the  last  command  executed  in
              list, or zero if no commands were executed.

       case word in [ [(] pattern [ | pattern ] ... ) list ;; ] ... esac
              A  case command first expands word, and tries to match it against each pattern in turn, using the same
              matching rules as for pathname expansion (see Pathname Expansion below).  The word is  expanded  using
              tilde  expansion,  parameter  and  variable  expansion, arithmetic substitution, command substitution,
              process substitution and quote removal.  Each pattern examined  is  expanded  using  tilde  expansion,
              parameter and variable expansion, arithmetic substitution, command substitution, and process substitu‐
              tion.  If the shell option nocasematch is enabled, the match is performed without regard to  the  case
              of alphabetic characters.  When a match is found, the corresponding list is executed.  If the ;; oper‐
              ator is used, no subsequent matches are attempted after the first pattern match.  Using ;& in place of
              ;;  causes execution to continue with the list associated with the next set of patterns.  Using ;;& in
              place of ;; causes the shell to test the next pattern list in the statement, if any, and  execute  any
              associated  list on a successful match.  The exit status is zero if no pattern matches.  Otherwise, it
              is the exit status of the last command executed in list.

       if list; then list; [ elif list; then list; ] ... [ else list; ] fi
              The if list is executed.  If its exit status is zero, the then list is executed.  Otherwise, each elif
              list  is executed in turn, and if its exit status is zero, the corresponding then list is executed and
              the command completes.  Otherwise, the else list is executed, if present.  The exit status is the exit
              status of the last command executed, or zero if no condition tested true.

       while list-1; do list-2; done
       until list-1; do list-2; done
              The while command continuously executes the list list-2 as long as the last command in the list list-1
              returns an exit status of zero.  The until command is identical to the while command, except that  the
              test is negated; list-2 is executed as long as the last command in list-1 returns a non-zero exit sta‐
              tus.  The exit status of the while and until commands is the exit status of the last command  executed
              in list-2, or zero if none was executed.

   Coprocesses
       A  coprocess is a shell command preceded by the coproc reserved word.  A coprocess is executed asynchronously
       in a subshell, as if the command had been terminated with the & control operator, with a two-way pipe  estab‐
       lished between the executing shell and the coprocess.

       The format for a coprocess is:

              coproc [NAME] command [redirections]

       This  creates a coprocess named NAME.  If NAME is not supplied, the default name is COPROC.  NAME must not be
       supplied if command is a simple command (see above); otherwise, it is interpreted as the first  word  of  the
       simple command.  When the coprocess is executed, the shell creates an array variable (see Arrays below) named
       NAME in the context of the executing shell.  The standard output of command is connected via a pipe to a file
       descriptor  in  the  executing shell, and that file descriptor is assigned to NAME[0].  The standard input of
       command is connected via a pipe to a file descriptor in the executing shell,  and  that  file  descriptor  is
       assigned  to  NAME[1].   This pipe is established before any redirections specified by the command (see REDI‐
       RECTION below).  The file descriptors can be utilized as arguments to shell commands and  redirections  using
       standard  word expansions.  The file descriptors are not available in subshells.  The process ID of the shell
       spawned to execute the coprocess is available as the value of the variable NAME_PID.  The wait  builtin  com‐
       mand may be used to wait for the coprocess to terminate.

       Since  the  coprocess  is created as an asynchronous command, the coproc command always returns success.  The
       return status of a coprocess is the exit status of command.

   Shell Function Definitions
       A shell function is an object that is called like a simple command and executes a compound command with a new
       set of positional parameters.  Shell functions are declared as follows:

       name () compound-command [redirection]
       function name [()] compound-command [redirection]
              This defines a function named name.  The reserved word function is optional.  If the function reserved
              word is supplied, the parentheses are optional.  The body of the function is the compound command com‐
              pound-command (see Compound Commands above).  That command is usually a list of commands between { and
              }, but may be any command listed under Compound Commands above.  compound-command is executed whenever
              name  is  specified  as the name of a simple command.  When in posix mode, name may not be the name of
              one of the POSIX special builtins.  Any redirections (see REDIRECTION below) specified when a function
              is  defined  are performed when the function is executed.  The exit status of a function definition is
              zero unless a syntax error occurs or a readonly function with the same name already exists.  When exe‐
              cuted,  the  exit  status  of  a function is the exit status of the last command executed in the body.
              (See FUNCTIONS below.)

COMMENTS
       In a non-interactive shell, or an interactive shell in which the interactive_comments  option  to  the  shopt
       builtin  is  enabled  (see  SHELL  BUILTIN  COMMANDS below), a word beginning with # causes that word and all
       remaining characters on that line to be ignored.   An  interactive  shell  without  the  interactive_comments
       option  enabled  does  not  allow  comments.  The interactive_comments option is on by default in interactive
       shells.

QUOTING
       Quoting is used to remove the special meaning of certain characters or words to the shell.   Quoting  can  be
       used  to disable special treatment for special characters, to prevent reserved words from being recognized as
       such, and to prevent parameter expansion.

       Each of the metacharacters listed above under DEFINITIONS has special meaning to the shell and must be quoted
       if it is to represent itself.

       When  the  command  history  expansion  facilities  are being used (see HISTORY EXPANSION below), the history
       expansion character, usually !, must be quoted to prevent history expansion.

       There are three quoting mechanisms: the escape character, single quotes, and double quotes.

       A non-quoted backslash (\) is the escape character.  It preserves the literal value  of  the  next  character
       that follows, with the exception of <newline>.  If a \<newline> pair appears, and the backslash is not itself
       quoted, the \<newline> is treated as a line continuation (that is, it is removed from the  input  stream  and
       effectively ignored).

       Enclosing  characters  in  single  quotes preserves the literal value of each character within the quotes.  A
       single quote may not occur between single quotes, even when preceded by a backslash.

       Enclosing characters in double quotes preserves the literal value of all characters within the  quotes,  with
       the  exception  of  $,  `, \, and, when history expansion is enabled, !.  The characters $ and ` retain their
       special meaning within double quotes.  The backslash retains its special meaning only when followed by one of
       the  following  characters:  $,  `, ", \, or <newline>.  A double quote may be quoted within double quotes by
       preceding it with a backslash.  If enabled, history expansion will be performed unless  an  !   appearing  in
       double quotes is escaped using a backslash.  The backslash preceding the !  is not removed.

       The special parameters * and @ have special meaning when in double quotes (see PARAMETERS below).

       Words  of the form $'string' are treated specially.  The word expands to string, with backslash-escaped char‐
       acters replaced as specified by the ANSI C standard.  Backslash escape sequences, if present, are decoded  as
       follows:
              \a     alert (bell)
              \b     backspace
              \e
              \E     an escape character
              \f     form feed
              \n     new line
              \r     carriage return
              \t     horizontal tab
              \v     vertical tab
              \\     backslash
              \'     single quote
              \"     double quote
              \nnn   the eight-bit character whose value is the octal value nnn (one to three digits)
              \xHH   the eight-bit character whose value is the hexadecimal value HH (one or two hex digits)
              \uHHHH the  Unicode  (ISO/IEC  10646) character whose value is the hexadecimal value HHHH (one to four
                     hex digits)
              \UHHHHHHHH
                     the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the hexadecimal  value  HHHHHHHH  (one  to
                     eight hex digits)
              \cx    a control-x character

       The expanded result is single-quoted, as if the dollar sign had not been present.

       A double-quoted string preceded by a dollar sign ($"string") will cause the string to be translated according
       to the current locale.  If the current locale is C or POSIX, the dollar sign is ignored.  If  the  string  is
       translated and replaced, the replacement is double-quoted.

PARAMETERS
       A  parameter  is  an entity that stores values.  It can be a name, a number, or one of the special characters
       listed below under Special Parameters.  A variable is a parameter denoted by a name.  A variable has a  value
       and zero or more attributes.  Attributes are assigned using the declare builtin command (see declare below in
       SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS).

       A parameter is set if it has been assigned a value.  The null string is a valid value.  Once  a  variable  is
       set, it may be unset only by using the unset builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below).

       A variable may be assigned to by a statement of the form

              name=[value]

       If value is not given, the variable is assigned the null string.  All values undergo tilde expansion, parame‐
       ter and variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion,  and  quote  removal  (see  EXPANSION
       below).   If  the variable has its integer attribute set, then value is evaluated as an arithmetic expression
       even if the $((...)) expansion is not used (see Arithmetic Expansion below).   Word  splitting  is  not  per‐
       formed,  with  the  exception of "$@" as explained below under Special Parameters.  Pathname expansion is not
       performed.  Assignment statements may also appear as arguments to the alias, declare, typeset, export,  read‐
       only,  and  local  builtin commands.  When in posix mode, these builtins may appear in a command after one or
       more instances of the command builtin and retain these assignment statement properties.

       In the context where an assignment statement is assigning a value to a shell variable or array index, the  +=
       operator  can be used to append to or add to the variable's previous value.  When += is applied to a variable
       for which the integer attribute has been set, value is evaluated as an arithmetic expression and added to the
       variable's  current  value,  which is also evaluated.  When += is applied to an array variable using compound
       assignment (see Arrays below), the variable's value is not unset (as it is when using =), and new values  are
       appended  to  the array beginning at one greater than the array's maximum index (for indexed arrays) or added
       as additional key-value pairs in an associative array.  When applied to a string-valued  variable,  value  is
       expanded and appended to the variable's value.

       A variable can be assigned the nameref attribute using the -n option to the declare or local builtin commands
       (see the descriptions of declare and local below) to create a nameref, or a reference  to  another  variable.
       This  allows variables to be manipulated indirectly.  Whenever the nameref variable is referenced or assigned
       to, the operation is actually performed on the variable specified by the nameref variable's value.  A nameref
       is  commonly  used  within  shell functions to refer to a variable whose name is passed as an argument to the
       function.  For instance, if a variable name is passed to a shell function as its first argument, running
              declare -n ref=$1
       inside the function creates a nameref variable ref whose value is the variable name passed as the first argu‐
       ment.  References and assignments to ref are treated as references and assignments to the variable whose name
       was passed as $1.  If the control variable in a for loop has the nameref attribute, the list of words can  be
       a  list of shell variables, and a name reference will be established for each word in the list, in turn, when
       the loop is executed.  Array variables cannot be given the -n attribute.  However, nameref variables can ref‐
       erence  array  variables  and  subscripted array variables.  Namerefs can be unset using the -n option to the
       unset builtin.  Otherwise, if unset is executed with the name of a nameref variable as an argument, the vari‐
       able referenced by the nameref variable will be unset.

   Positional Parameters
       A  positional  parameter  is a parameter denoted by one or more digits, other than the single digit 0.  Posi‐
       tional parameters are assigned from the shell's arguments when it is invoked, and may be reassigned using the
       set  builtin  command.   Positional  parameters may not be assigned to with assignment statements.  The posi‐
       tional parameters are temporarily replaced when a shell function is executed (see FUNCTIONS below).

       When a positional parameter consisting of more than a single digit is expanded, it must be enclosed in braces
       (see EXPANSION below).

   Special Parameters
       The  shell  treats several parameters specially.  These parameters may only be referenced; assignment to them
       is not allowed.
       *      Expands to the positional parameters, starting from one.  When the  expansion  is  not  within  double
              quotes,  each  positional  parameter  expands  to a separate word.  In contexts where it is performed,
              those words are subject to further word splitting and pathname expansion.  When the  expansion  occurs
              within  double  quotes,  it expands to a single word with the value of each parameter separated by the
              first character of the IFS special variable.  That is, "$*" is equivalent to "$1c$2c...", where  c  is
              the  first  character of the value of the IFS variable.  If IFS is unset, the parameters are separated
              by spaces.  If IFS is null, the parameters are joined without intervening separators.
       @      Expands to the positional parameters, starting from one.  When  the  expansion  occurs  within  double
              quotes,  each  parameter expands to a separate word.  That is, "$@" is equivalent to "$1" "$2" ...  If
              the double-quoted expansion occurs within a word, the expansion of the first parameter is joined  with
              the  beginning  part  of the original word, and the expansion of the last parameter is joined with the
              last part of the original word.  When there are no positional parameters, "$@" and $@ expand to  noth‐
              ing (i.e., they are removed).
       #      Expands to the number of positional parameters in decimal.
       ?      Expands to the exit status of the most recently executed foreground pipeline.
       -      Expands to the current option flags as specified upon invocation, by the set builtin command, or those
              set by the shell itself (such as the -i option).
       $      Expands to the process ID of the shell.  In a () subshell, it expands to the process ID of the current
              shell, not the subshell.
       !      Expands  to the process ID of the job most recently placed into the background, whether executed as an
              asynchronous command or using the bg builtin (see JOB CONTROL below).
       0      Expands to the name of the shell or shell script.  This is set at shell initialization.   If  bash  is
              invoked  with  a file of commands, $0 is set to the name of that file.  If bash is started with the -c
              option, then $0 is set to the first argument after the string to be executed, if one is present.  Oth‐
              erwise, it is set to the filename used to invoke bash, as given by argument zero.
       _      At shell startup, set to the absolute pathname used to invoke the shell or shell script being executed
              as passed in the environment or argument list.  Subsequently, expands to the last argument to the pre‐
              vious  command,  after  expansion.  Also set to the full pathname used to invoke each command executed
              and placed in the environment exported to that command.  When checking mail, this parameter holds  the
              name of the mail file currently being checked.

   Shell Variables
       The following variables are set by the shell:

       BASH   Expands to the full filename used to invoke this instance of bash.
       BASHOPTS
              A colon-separated list of enabled shell options.  Each word in the list is a valid argument for the -s
              option to the shopt builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS  below).   The  options  appearing  in
              BASHOPTS  are  those reported as on by shopt.  If this variable is in the environment when bash starts
              up, each shell option in the list will be enabled before reading any startup files.  This variable  is
              read-only.
       BASHPID
              Expands  to  the  process  ID of the current bash process.  This differs from $$ under certain circum‐
              stances, such as subshells that do not require bash to be re-initialized.
       BASH_ALIASES
              An associative array variable whose members correspond to the internal list of aliases  as  maintained
              by the alias builtin.  Elements added to this array appear in the alias list; unsetting array elements
              cause aliases to be removed from the alias list.
       BASH_ARGC
              An array variable whose values are the number of parameters in each frame of the current  bash  execu‐
              tion  call  stack.   The number of parameters to the current subroutine (shell function or script exe‐
              cuted with . or source) is at the top of the stack.  When a subroutine  is  executed,  the  number  of
              parameters  passed is pushed onto BASH_ARGC.  The shell sets BASH_ARGC only when in extended debugging
              mode (see the description of the extdebug option to the shopt builtin below)
       BASH_ARGV
              An array variable containing all of the parameters in the current  bash  execution  call  stack.   The
              final  parameter  of  the  last subroutine call is at the top of the stack; the first parameter of the
              initial call is at the bottom.  When a subroutine is executed, the parameters supplied are pushed onto
              BASH_ARGV.   The shell sets BASH_ARGV only when in extended debugging mode (see the description of the
              extdebug option to the shopt builtin below)
       BASH_CMDS
              An associative array variable whose members correspond to the internal hash table of commands as main‐
              tained  by  the  hash builtin.  Elements added to this array appear in the hash table; unsetting array
              elements cause commands to be removed from the hash table.
       BASH_COMMAND
              The command currently being executed or about to be executed, unless the shell is executing a  command
              as the result of a trap, in which case it is the command executing at the time of the trap.
       BASH_EXECUTION_STRING
              The command argument to the -c invocation option.
       BASH_LINENO
              An  array  variable whose members are the line numbers in source files where each corresponding member
              of  FUNCNAME  was  invoked.   ${BASH_LINENO[$i]}   is   the   line   number   in   the   source   file
              (${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]})  where ${FUNCNAME[$i]} was called (or ${BASH_LINENO[$i-1]} if referenced within
              another shell function).  Use LINENO to obtain the current line number.
       BASH_REMATCH
              An array variable whose members are assigned by the =~ binary operator to the [[ conditional  command.
              The  element  with  index  0 is the portion of the string matching the entire regular expression.  The
              element with index n is the portion of the string matching the nth parenthesized subexpression.   This
              variable is read-only.
       BASH_SOURCE
              An  array variable whose members are the source filenames where the corresponding shell function names
              in the FUNCNAME array variable are defined.  The shell function ${FUNCNAME[$i]} is defined in the file
              ${BASH_SOURCE[$i]} and called from ${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]}.
       BASH_SUBSHELL
              Incremented  by  one  within  each subshell or subshell environment when the shell begins executing in
              that environment.  The initial value is 0.
       BASH_VERSINFO
              A readonly array variable whose members hold version information for this instance of bash.  The  val‐
              ues assigned to the array members are as follows:
              BASH_VERSINFO[0]        The major version number (the release).
              BASH_VERSINFO[1]        The minor version number (the version).
              BASH_VERSINFO[2]        The patch level.
              BASH_VERSINFO[3]        The build version.
              BASH_VERSINFO[4]        The release status (e.g., beta1).
              BASH_VERSINFO[5]        The value of MACHTYPE.
       BASH_VERSION
              Expands to a string describing the version of this instance of bash.
       COMP_CWORD
              An  index  into  ${COMP_WORDS}  of  the word containing the current cursor position.  This variable is
              available only in shell functions invoked by the programmable completion facilities (see  Programmable
              Completion below).
       COMP_KEY
              The key (or final key of a key sequence) used to invoke the current completion function.
       COMP_LINE
              The  current  command  line.  This variable is available only in shell functions and external commands
              invoked by the programmable completion facilities (see Programmable Completion below).
       COMP_POINT
              The index of the current cursor position relative to the beginning of the  current  command.   If  the
              current  cursor  position is at the end of the current command, the value of this variable is equal to
              ${#COMP_LINE}.  This variable is available only in shell functions and external  commands  invoked  by
              the programmable completion facilities (see Programmable Completion below).
       COMP_TYPE
              Set  to  an  integer  value corresponding to the type of completion attempted that caused a completion
              function to be called: TAB, for normal completion, ?, for listing completions after  successive  tabs,
              !,  for  listing  alternatives  on  partial word completion, @, to list completions if the word is not
              unmodified, or %, for menu completion.  This variable is available only in shell functions and  exter‐
              nal commands invoked by the programmable completion facilities (see Programmable Completion below).
       COMP_WORDBREAKS
              The set of characters that the readline library treats as word separators when performing word comple‐
              tion.  If COMP_WORDBREAKS is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset.
       COMP_WORDS
              An array variable (see Arrays below) consisting of the individual words in the current  command  line.
              The  line  is  split  into words as readline would split it, using COMP_WORDBREAKS as described above.
              This variable is available only in shell functions invoked by the programmable  completion  facilities
              (see Programmable Completion below).
       COPROC An array variable (see Arrays below) created to hold the file descriptors for output from and input to
              an unnamed coprocess (see Coprocesses above).
       DIRSTACK
              An array variable (see Arrays below) containing the current contents of the directory stack.  Directo‐
              ries appear in the stack in the order they are displayed by the dirs builtin.  Assigning to members of
              this array variable may be used to modify directories already in the stack, but  the  pushd  and  popd
              builtins  must be used to add and remove directories.  Assignment to this variable will not change the
              current directory.  If DIRSTACK is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is  subsequently
              reset.
       EUID   Expands  to the effective user ID of the current user, initialized at shell startup.  This variable is
              readonly.
       FUNCNAME
              An array variable containing the names of all shell functions currently in the execution  call  stack.
              The  element with index 0 is the name of any currently-executing shell function.  The bottom-most ele‐
              ment (the one with the highest index) is "main".  This variable exists only when a shell  function  is
              executing.   Assignments to FUNCNAME have no effect and return an error status.  If FUNCNAME is unset,
              it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset.

              This variable can be used with BASH_LINENO and BASH_SOURCE.  Each element of FUNCNAME has  correspond‐
              ing elements in BASH_LINENO and BASH_SOURCE to describe the call stack.  For instance, ${FUNCNAME[$i]}
              was called from the file ${BASH_SOURCE[$i+1]} at line number ${BASH_LINENO[$i]}.  The  caller  builtin
              displays the current call stack using this information.
       GROUPS An array variable containing the list of groups of which the current user is a member.  Assignments to
              GROUPS have no effect and return an error status.  If GROUPS is unset, it loses  its  special  proper‐
              ties, even if it is subsequently reset.
       HISTCMD
              The  history  number,  or  index in the history list, of the current command.  If HISTCMD is unset, it
              loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset.
       HOSTNAME
              Automatically set to the name of the current host.
       HOSTTYPE
              Automatically set to a string that uniquely describes the type of machine on which bash is  executing.
              The default is system-dependent.
       LINENO Each  time  this parameter is referenced, the shell substitutes a decimal number representing the cur‐
              rent sequential line number (starting with 1) within a script or function.  When not in  a  script  or
              function,  the value substituted is not guaranteed to be meaningful.  If LINENO is unset, it loses its
              special properties, even if it is subsequently reset.
       MACHTYPE
              Automatically set to a string that fully describes the system type on which bash is executing, in  the
              standard GNU cpu-company-system format.  The default is system-dependent.
       MAPFILE
              An  array  variable  (see  Arrays  below) created to hold the text read by the mapfile builtin when no
              variable name is supplied.
       OLDPWD The previous working directory as set by the cd command.
       OPTARG The value of the last option argument processed by the getopts builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COM‐
              MANDS below).
       OPTIND The  index of the next argument to be processed by the getopts builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COM‐
              MANDS below).
       OSTYPE Automatically set to a string that describes the operating system on which  bash  is  executing.   The
              default is system-dependent.
       PIPESTATUS
              An array variable (see Arrays below) containing a list of exit status values from the processes in the
              most-recently-executed foreground pipeline (which may contain only a single command).
       PPID   The process ID of the shell's parent.  This variable is readonly.
       PWD    The current working directory as set by the cd command.
       RANDOM Each time this parameter is referenced, a random integer  between  0  and  32767  is  generated.   The
              sequence  of random numbers may be initialized by assigning a value to RANDOM.  If RANDOM is unset, it
              loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset.
       READLINE_LINE
              The contents of the readline line buffer, for use with "bind -x" (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below).
       READLINE_POINT
              The position of the insertion point in the readline line buffer, for use with  "bind  -x"  (see  SHELL
              BUILTIN COMMANDS below).
       REPLY  Set to the line of input read by the read builtin command when no arguments are supplied.
       SECONDS
              Each  time this parameter is referenced, the number of seconds since shell invocation is returned.  If
              a value is assigned to SECONDS, the value returned upon subsequent references is the number of seconds
              since  the  assignment plus the value assigned.  If SECONDS is unset, it loses its special properties,
              even if it is subsequently reset.
       SHELLOPTS
              A colon-separated list of enabled shell options.  Each word in the list is a valid argument for the -o
              option  to the set builtin command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below).  The options appearing in SHEL‐
              LOPTS are those reported as on by set -o.  If this variable is in the environment when bash starts up,
              each  shell  option  in  the  list will be enabled before reading any startup files.  This variable is
              read-only.
       SHLVL  Incremented by one each time an instance of bash is started.
       UID    Expands to the user ID of the current user, initialized at shell startup.  This variable is readonly.

       The following variables are used by the shell.  In some cases, bash assigns a default value  to  a  variable;
       these cases are noted below.

       BASH_COMPAT
              The  value  is  used to set the shell's compatibility level.  See the description of the shopt builtin
              below under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS for a description of the various  compatibility  levels  and  their
              effects.   The value may be a decimal number (e.g., 4.2) or an integer (e.g., 42) corresponding to the
              desired compatibility level.  If BASH_COMPAT is unset or set to the empty  string,  the  compatibility
              level is set to the default for the current version.  If BASH_COMPAT is set to a value that is not one
              of the valid compatibility levels, the shell prints an error message and sets the compatibility  level
              to  the default for the current version.  The valid compatibility levels correspond to the compatibil‐
              ity options accepted by the shopt builtin described below (for example, compat42 means that 4.2 and 42
              are valid values).  The current version is also a valid value.
       BASH_ENV
              If this parameter is set when bash is executing a shell script, its value is interpreted as a filename
              containing commands to initialize the shell, as in ~/.bashrc.  The value of BASH_ENV is  subjected  to
              parameter  expansion,  command  substitution,  and  arithmetic expansion before being interpreted as a
              filename.  PATH is not used to search for the resultant filename.
       BASH_XTRACEFD
              If set to an integer corresponding to a valid file descriptor, bash will write the trace output gener‐
              ated when set -x is enabled to that file descriptor.  The file descriptor is closed when BASH_XTRACEFD
              is unset or assigned a new value.  Unsetting BASH_XTRACEFD or assigning it the empty string causes the
              trace  output  to  be  sent to the standard error.  Note that setting BASH_XTRACEFD to 2 (the standard
              error file descriptor) and then unsetting it will result in the standard error being closed.
       CDPATH The search path for the cd command.  This is a colon-separated list of directories in which the  shell
              looks for destination directories specified by the cd command.  A sample value is ".:~:/usr".
       CHILD_MAX
              Set  the  number  of  exited  child status values for the shell to remember.  Bash will not allow this
              value to be decreased below a POSIX-mandated minimum, and there is a maximum  value  (currently  8192)
              that this may not exceed.  The minimum value is system-dependent.
       COLUMNS
              Used  by  the  select  compound command to determine the terminal width when printing selection lists.
              Automatically set if the checkwinsize option is enabled or in an interactive shell upon receipt  of  a
              SIGWINCH.
       COMPREPLY
              An array variable from which bash reads the possible completions generated by a shell function invoked
              by the programmable completion facility (see Programmable Completion below).  Each array element  con‐
              tains one possible completion.
       EMACS  If  bash  finds this variable in the environment when the shell starts with value "t", it assumes that
              the shell is running in an Emacs shell buffer and disables line editing.
       ENV    Similar to BASH_ENV; used when the shell is invoked in POSIX mode.
       FCEDIT The default editor for the fc builtin command.
       FIGNORE
              A colon-separated list of suffixes to ignore when performing filename completion (see READLINE below).
              A  filename  whose  suffix  matches one of the entries in FIGNORE is excluded from the list of matched
              filenames.  A sample value is ".o:~" (Quoting is needed when assigning a value to this variable, which
              contains tildes).
       FUNCNEST
              If  set to a numeric value greater than 0, defines a maximum function nesting level.  Function invoca‐
              tions that exceed this nesting level will cause the current command to abort.
       GLOBIGNORE
              A colon-separated list of patterns defining the set of filenames to be ignored by pathname  expansion.
              If  a filename matched by a pathname expansion pattern also matches one of the patterns in GLOBIGNORE,
              it is removed from the list of matches.
       HISTCONTROL
              A colon-separated list of values controlling how commands are saved on the history list.  If the  list
              of  values includes ignorespace, lines which begin with a space character are not saved in the history
              list.  A value of ignoredups causes lines matching the previous history entry  to  not  be  saved.   A
              value of ignoreboth is shorthand for ignorespace and ignoredups.  A value of erasedups causes all pre‐
              vious lines matching the current line to be removed from the history list before that line  is  saved.
              Any  value  not  in  the  above list is ignored.  If HISTCONTROL is unset, or does not include a valid
              value, all lines read by the shell parser are saved on the history  list,  subject  to  the  value  of
              HISTIGNORE.   The second and subsequent lines of a multi-line compound command are not tested, and are
              added to the history regardless of the value of HISTCONTROL.
       HISTFILE
              The name of the file in which command history is saved (see HISTORY  below).   The  default  value  is
              ~/.bash_history.  If unset, the command history is not saved when a shell exits.
       HISTFILESIZE
              The  maximum  number  of lines contained in the history file.  When this variable is assigned a value,
              the history file is truncated, if necessary, to contain no more than that number of lines by  removing
              the  oldest  entries.   The  history file is also truncated to this size after writing it when a shell
              exits.  If the value is 0, the history file is truncated to zero size.  Non-numeric values and numeric
              values  less  than zero inhibit truncation.  The shell sets the default value to the value of HISTSIZE
              after reading any startup files.
       HISTIGNORE
              A colon-separated list of patterns used to decide which command lines should be saved on  the  history
              list.   Each  pattern  is  anchored  at the beginning of the line and must match the complete line (no
              implicit `*' is appended).  Each pattern is tested against the line  after  the  checks  specified  by
              HISTCONTROL are applied.  In addition to the normal shell pattern matching characters, `&' matches the
              previous history line.  `&' may be escaped using a backslash; the backslash is removed before attempt‐
              ing a match.  The second and subsequent lines of a multi-line compound command are not tested, and are
              added to the history regardless of the value of HISTIGNORE.
       HISTSIZE
              The number of commands to remember in the command history (see HISTORY below).  If  the  value  is  0,
              commands  are  not  saved  in the history list.  Numeric values less than zero result in every command
              being saved on the history list (there is no limit).  The shell sets the default value  to  500  after
              reading any startup files.
       HISTTIMEFORMAT
              If  this  variable  is set and not null, its value is used as a format string for strftime(3) to print
              the time stamp associated with each history entry displayed by the history builtin.  If this  variable
              is  set,  time  stamps are written to the history file so they may be preserved across shell sessions.
              This uses the history comment character to distinguish timestamps from other history lines.
       HOME   The home directory of the current user; the default argument for the cd builtin command.  The value of
              this variable is also used when performing tilde expansion.
       HOSTFILE
              Contains  the name of a file in the same format as /etc/hosts that should be read when the shell needs
              to complete a hostname.  The list of possible hostname completions may be changed while the  shell  is
              running; the next time hostname completion is attempted after the value is changed, bash adds the con‐
              tents of the new file to the existing list.  If HOSTFILE is set, but has no value, or does not name  a
              readable  file,  bash attempts to read /etc/hosts to obtain the list of possible hostname completions.
              When HOSTFILE is unset, the hostname list is cleared.
       IFS    The Internal Field Separator that is used for word splitting after expansion and to split  lines  into
              words with the read builtin command.  The default value is ``<space><tab><newline>''.
       IGNOREEOF
              Controls the action of an interactive shell on receipt of an EOF character as the sole input.  If set,
              the value is the number of consecutive EOF characters which must be typed as the first  characters  on
              an  input line before bash exits.  If the variable exists but does not have a numeric value, or has no
              value, the default value is 10.  If it does not exist, EOF signifies the end of input to the shell.
       INPUTRC
              The filename for the readline startup file, overriding the default of ~/.inputrc (see READLINE below).
       LANG   Used to determine the locale category for any category  not  specifically  selected  with  a  variable
              starting with LC_.
       LC_ALL This variable overrides the value of LANG and any other LC_ variable specifying a locale category.
       LC_COLLATE
              This  variable determines the collation order used when sorting the results of pathname expansion, and
              determines the behavior of range expressions, equivalence  classes,  and  collating  sequences  within
              pathname expansion and pattern matching.
       LC_CTYPE
              This variable determines the interpretation of characters and the behavior of character classes within
              pathname expansion and pattern matching.
       LC_MESSAGES
              This variable determines the locale used to translate double-quoted strings preceded by a $.
       LC_NUMERIC
              This variable determines the locale category used for number formatting.
       LINES  Used by the select compound command to determine the  column  length  for  printing  selection  lists.
              Automatically  set  if the checkwinsize option is enabled or in an interactive shell upon receipt of a
              SIGWINCH.
       MAIL   If this parameter is set to a file or directory name and  the  MAILPATH  variable  is  not  set,  bash
              informs the user of the arrival of mail in the specified file or Maildir-format directory.
       MAILCHECK
              Specifies how often (in seconds) bash checks for mail.  The default is 60 seconds.  When it is time to
              check for mail, the shell does so before displaying the primary prompt.  If this variable is unset, or
              set to a value that is not a number greater than or equal to zero, the shell disables mail checking.
       MAILPATH
              A  colon-separated  list  of  filenames  to  be checked for mail.  The message to be printed when mail
              arrives in a particular file may be specified by separating the filename from the message with a  `?'.
              When used in the text of the message, $_ expands to the name of the current mailfile.  Example:
              MAILPATH='/var/mail/bfox?"You have mail":~/shell-mail?"$_ has mail!"'
              Bash  supplies a default value for this variable, but the location of the user mail files that it uses
              is system dependent (e.g., /var/mail/$USER).
       OPTERR If set to the value 1, bash displays error messages generated by  the  getopts  builtin  command  (see
              SHELL  BUILTIN  COMMANDS below).  OPTERR is initialized to 1 each time the shell is invoked or a shell
              script is executed.
       PATH   The search path for commands.  It is a colon-separated list of directories in which  the  shell  looks
              for  commands (see COMMAND EXECUTION below).  A zero-length (null) directory name in the value of PATH
              indicates the current directory.  A null directory name may appear as two adjacent colons,  or  as  an
              initial  or trailing colon.  The default path is system-dependent, and is set by the administrator who
              installs bash.  A common value is ``/usr/local/bin:/usr/local/sbin:/usr/bin:/usr/sbin:/bin:/sbin''.
       POSIXLY_CORRECT
              If this variable is in the environment when bash starts, the shell enters posix  mode  before  reading
              the  startup  files,  as  if  the --posix invocation option had been supplied.  If it is set while the
              shell is running, bash enables posix mode, as if the command set -o posix had been executed.
       PROMPT_COMMAND
              If set, the value is executed as a command prior to issuing each primary prompt.
       PROMPT_DIRTRIM
              If set to a number greater than zero, the value is used as the number of trailing directory components
              to  retain  when  expanding  the  \w  and  \W prompt string escapes (see PROMPTING below).  Characters
              removed are replaced with an ellipsis.
       PS1    The value of this parameter is expanded (see PROMPTING below) and used as the primary  prompt  string.
              The default value is ``\s-\v\$ ''.
       PS2    The  value  of  this  parameter  is expanded as with PS1 and used as the secondary prompt string.  The
              default is ``> ''.
       PS3    The value of this parameter is used as the prompt for the select command (see SHELL GRAMMAR above).
       PS4    The value of this parameter is expanded as with PS1 and the value is printed before each command  bash
              displays  during an execution trace.  The first character of PS4 is replicated multiple times, as nec‐
              essary, to indicate multiple levels of indirection.  The default is ``+ ''.
       SHELL  The full pathname to the shell is kept in this environment variable.  If it is not set when the  shell
              starts, bash assigns to it the full pathname of the current user's login shell.
       TIMEFORMAT
              The value of this parameter is used as a format string specifying how the timing information for pipe‐
              lines prefixed with the time reserved word should be displayed.  The % character introduces an  escape
              sequence  that is expanded to a time value or other information.  The escape sequences and their mean‐
              ings are as follows; the braces denote optional portions.
              %%        A literal %.
              %[p][l]R  The elapsed time in seconds.
              %[p][l]U  The number of CPU seconds spent in user mode.
              %[p][l]S  The number of CPU seconds spent in system mode.
              %P        The CPU percentage, computed as (%U + %S) / %R.

              The optional p is a digit specifying the precision, the number of fractional digits  after  a  decimal
              point.  A value of 0 causes no decimal point or fraction to be output.  At most three places after the
              decimal point may be specified; values of p greater than 3 are changed to 3.  If p is  not  specified,
              the value 3 is used.

              The  optional  l  specifies a longer format, including minutes, of the form MMmSS.FFs.  The value of p
              determines whether or not the fraction is included.

              If this variable is not set, bash acts as if it had the value  $'\nreal\t%3lR\nuser\t%3lU\nsys\t%3lS'.
              If the value is null, no timing information is displayed.  A trailing newline is added when the format
              string is displayed.
       TMOUT  If set to a value greater than zero, TMOUT is treated as the default timeout  for  the  read  builtin.
              The select command terminates if input does not arrive after TMOUT seconds when input is coming from a
              terminal.  In an interactive shell, the value is interpreted as the number of seconds to  wait  for  a
              line of input after issuing the primary prompt.  Bash terminates after waiting for that number of sec‐
              onds if a complete line of input does not arrive.
       TMPDIR If set, bash uses its value as the name of a directory in which bash creates temporary files  for  the
              shell's use.
       auto_resume
              This  variable  controls  how  the shell interacts with the user and job control.  If this variable is
              set, single word simple commands without redirections are treated as candidates for resumption  of  an
              existing stopped job.  There is no ambiguity allowed; if there is more than one job beginning with the
              string typed, the job most recently accessed is selected.  The name of a stopped job, in this context,
              is  the  command line used to start it.  If set to the value exact, the string supplied must match the
              name of a stopped job exactly; if set to substring, the string supplied needs to match a substring  of
              the  name of a stopped job.  The substring value provides functionality analogous to the %?  job iden‐
              tifier (see JOB CONTROL below).  If set to any other value, the supplied string must be a prefix of  a
              stopped job's name; this provides functionality analogous to the %string job identifier.
       histchars
              The  two  or  three characters which control history expansion and tokenization (see HISTORY EXPANSION
              below).  The first character is the history expansion character, the character which signals the start
              of a history expansion, normally `!'.  The second character is the quick substitution character, which
              is used as shorthand for re-running the previous command entered, substituting one string for  another
              in  the  command.   The default is `^'.  The optional third character is the character which indicates
              that the remainder of the line is a comment when found as the first character of a word, normally `#'.
              The history comment character causes history substitution to be skipped for the remaining words on the
              line.  It does not necessarily cause the shell parser to treat the rest of the line as a comment.

   Arrays
       Bash provides one-dimensional indexed and associative array variables.   Any  variable  may  be  used  as  an
       indexed  array;  the declare builtin will explicitly declare an array.  There is no maximum limit on the size
       of an array, nor any requirement that members be indexed or assigned contiguously.  Indexed arrays are refer‐
       enced  using  integers  (including arithmetic expressions)  and are zero-based; associative arrays are refer‐
       enced using arbitrary strings.  Unless otherwise noted, indexed array indices must be non-negative integers.

       An indexed array is created automatically  if  any  variable  is  assigned  to  using  the  syntax  name[sub‐
       script]=value.   The  subscript  is  treated  as an arithmetic expression that must evaluate to a number.  To
       explicitly declare an indexed array, use declare -a name (see SHELL  BUILTIN  COMMANDS  below).   declare  -a
       name[subscript] is also accepted; the subscript is ignored.

       Associative arrays are created using declare -A name.

       Attributes  may  be  specified for an array variable using the declare and readonly builtins.  Each attribute
       applies to all members of an array.

       Arrays are assigned to using compound assignments of the form name=(value1 ... valuen), where each  value  is
       of  the form [subscript]=string.  Indexed array assignments do not require anything but string.  When assign‐
       ing to indexed arrays, if the optional brackets and subscript are supplied, that index is assigned to; other‐
       wise  the  index  of  the element assigned is the last index assigned to by the statement plus one.  Indexing
       starts at zero.

       When assigning to an associative array, the subscript is required.

       This syntax is also accepted by the declare builtin.  Individual array elements may be assigned to using  the
       name[subscript]=value syntax introduced above.  When assigning to an indexed array, if name is subscripted by
       a negative number, that number is interpreted as relative to one greater than the maximum index of  name,  so
       negative indices count back from the end of the array, and an index of -1 references the last element.

       Any  element  of  an array may be referenced using ${name[subscript]}.  The braces are required to avoid con‐
       flicts with pathname expansion.  If subscript is @ or *, the word expands to all members of name.  These sub‐
       scripts  differ  only  when  the word appears within double quotes.  If the word is double-quoted, ${name[*]}
       expands to a single word with the value of each array member separated by the first character of the IFS spe‐
       cial  variable, and ${name[@]} expands each element of name to a separate word.  When there are no array mem‐
       bers, ${name[@]} expands to nothing.  If the double-quoted expansion occurs within a word, the  expansion  of
       the  first  parameter  is  joined with the beginning part of the original word, and the expansion of the last
       parameter is joined with the last part of the original word.  This is analogous to the expansion of the  spe‐
       cial  parameters  *  and  @  (see  Special  Parameters  above).  ${#name[subscript]} expands to the length of
       ${name[subscript]}.  If subscript is * or @, the expansion is the number of elements in the array.  Referenc‐
       ing  an  array variable without a subscript is equivalent to referencing the array with a subscript of 0.  If
       the subscript used to reference an element of an indexed array evaluates to a number less than  zero,  it  is
       interpreted  as  relative  to one greater than the maximum index of the array, so negative indices count back
       from the end of the array, and an index of -1 references the last element.

       An array variable is considered set if a subscript has been assigned a value.  The null  string  is  a  valid
       value.

       It  is  possible to obtain the keys (indices) of an array as well as the values.  ${!name[@]} and ${!name[*]}
       expand to the indices assigned in array variable name.  The treatment when in double quotes is similar to the
       expansion of the special parameters @ and * within double quotes.

       The  unset builtin is used to destroy arrays.  unset name[subscript] destroys the array element at index sub‐
       script.  Negative subscripts to indexed arrays are interpreted as described above.  Care  must  be  taken  to
       avoid  unwanted  side  effects  caused  by  pathname expansion.  unset name, where name is an array, or unset
       name[subscript], where subscript is * or @, removes the entire array.

       The declare, local, and readonly builtins each accept a -a option to specify an indexed array and a -A option
       to  specify  an  associative  array.   If  both  options are supplied, -A takes precedence.  The read builtin
       accepts a -a option to assign a list of words read from the standard input to an array.  The set and  declare
       builtins display array values in a way that allows them to be reused as assignments.

EXPANSION
       Expansion  is  performed  on  the  command line after it has been split into words.  There are seven kinds of
       expansion performed: brace expansion, tilde expansion, parameter and variable  expansion,  command  substitu‐
       tion, arithmetic expansion, word splitting, and pathname expansion.

       The  order  of  expansions is: brace expansion; tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, arithmetic
       expansion, and command substitution (done in a left-to-right fashion); word splitting;  and  pathname  expan‐
       sion.

       On  systems  that  can support it, there is an additional expansion available: process substitution.  This is
       performed at the same time as tilde, parameter, variable, and arithmetic expansion and command substitution.

       Only brace expansion, word splitting, and pathname expansion can change the number of words of the expansion;
       other  expansions  expand  a single word to a single word.  The only exceptions to this are the expansions of
       "$@" and "${name[@]}" as explained above (see PARAMETERS).

   Brace Expansion
       Brace expansion is a mechanism by which arbitrary strings may be generated.  This  mechanism  is  similar  to
       pathname  expansion, but the filenames generated need not exist.  Patterns to be brace expanded take the form
       of an optional preamble, followed by either a series of comma-separated  strings  or  a  sequence  expression
       between  a  pair of braces, followed by an optional postscript.  The preamble is prefixed to each string con‐
       tained within the braces, and the postscript is then appended to each resulting  string,  expanding  left  to
       right.

       Brace  expansions  may be nested.  The results of each expanded string are not sorted; left to right order is
       preserved.  For example, a{d,c,b}e expands into `ade ace abe'.

       A sequence expression takes the form {x..y[..incr]}, where x and y are either integers or single  characters,
       and  incr,  an optional increment, is an integer.  When integers are supplied, the expression expands to each
       number between x and y, inclusive.  Supplied integers may be prefixed with 0 to force each term to  have  the
       same  width.   When either x or y begins with a zero, the shell attempts to force all generated terms to con‐
       tain the same number of digits, zero-padding where necessary.  When characters are supplied,  the  expression
       expands  to  each  character  lexicographically between x and y, inclusive, using the default C locale.  Note
       that both x and y must be of the same type.  When the increment is supplied, it is  used  as  the  difference
       between each term.  The default increment is 1 or -1 as appropriate.

       Brace  expansion is performed before any other expansions, and any characters special to other expansions are
       preserved in the result.  It is strictly textual.  Bash does not apply any syntactic  interpretation  to  the
       context of the expansion or the text between the braces.

       A  correctly-formed  brace  expansion  must  contain  unquoted  opening  and closing braces, and at least one
       unquoted comma or a valid sequence expression.  Any incorrectly formed brace expansion is left unchanged.   A
       {  or  , may be quoted with a backslash to prevent its being considered part of a brace expression.  To avoid
       conflicts with parameter expansion, the string ${ is not considered eligible for brace expansion.

       This construct is typically used as shorthand when the common prefix of the strings to be generated is longer
       than in the above example:

              mkdir /usr/local/src/bash/{old,new,dist,bugs}
       or
              chown root /usr/{ucb/{ex,edit},lib/{ex?.?*,how_ex}}

       Brace  expansion introduces a slight incompatibility with historical versions of sh.  sh does not treat open‐
       ing or closing braces specially when they appear as part of a word, and preserves them in the  output.   Bash
       removes  braces  from  words  as  a  consequence  of  brace  expansion.  For example, a word entered to sh as
       file{1,2} appears identically in the output.  The same word is output as file1 file2 after expansion by bash.
       If strict compatibility with sh is desired, start bash with the +B option or disable brace expansion with the
       +B option to the set command (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below).

   Tilde Expansion
       If a word begins with an unquoted tilde character (`~'), all of the characters preceding the  first  unquoted
       slash (or all characters, if there is no unquoted slash) are considered a tilde-prefix.  If none of the char‐
       acters in the tilde-prefix are quoted, the characters in the tilde-prefix following the tilde are treated  as
       a  possible  login  name.  If this login name is the null string, the tilde is replaced with the value of the
       shell parameter HOME.  If HOME is unset, the home directory of the user executing the  shell  is  substituted
       instead.  Otherwise, the tilde-prefix is replaced with the home directory associated with the specified login
       name.

       If the tilde-prefix is a `~+', the value of the shell variable PWD replaces the tilde-prefix.  If the  tilde-
       prefix  is  a  `~-', the value of the shell variable OLDPWD, if it is set, is substituted.  If the characters
       following the tilde in the tilde-prefix consist of a number N, optionally prefixed by a `+'  or  a  `-',  the
       tilde-prefix is replaced with the corresponding element from the directory stack, as it would be displayed by
       the dirs builtin invoked with the tilde-prefix as an argument.  If the characters following the tilde in  the
       tilde-prefix consist of a number without a leading `+' or `-', `+' is assumed.

       If the login name is invalid, or the tilde expansion fails, the word is unchanged.

       Each variable assignment is checked for unquoted tilde-prefixes immediately following a : or the first =.  In
       these cases, tilde expansion is also performed.  Consequently, one may use filenames with tildes  in  assign‐
       ments to PATH, MAILPATH, and CDPATH, and the shell assigns the expanded value.

   Parameter Expansion
       The `$' character introduces parameter expansion, command substitution, or arithmetic expansion.  The parame‐
       ter name or symbol to be expanded may be enclosed in braces, which are optional  but  serve  to  protect  the
       variable  to  be  expanded from characters immediately following it which could be interpreted as part of the
       name.

       When braces are used, the matching ending brace is the first `}' not escaped  by  a  backslash  or  within  a
       quoted string, and not within an embedded arithmetic expansion, command substitution, or parameter expansion.

       ${parameter}
              The value of parameter is substituted.  The braces are required when parameter is a positional parame‐
              ter with more than one digit, or when parameter is followed by a character which is not to  be  inter‐
              preted  as  part of its name.  The parameter is a shell parameter as described above PARAMETERS) or an
              array reference (Arrays).

       If the first character of parameter is an exclamation point (!), it introduces a level of  variable  indirec‐
       tion.   Bash  uses  the  value of the variable formed from the rest of parameter as the name of the variable;
       this variable is then expanded and that value is used in the rest of the substitution, rather than the  value
       of  parameter  itself.   This  is  known as indirect expansion.  The exceptions to this are the expansions of
       ${!prefix*} and ${!name[@]} described below.  The exclamation point must immediately follow the left brace in
       order to introduce indirection.

       In  each  of  the cases below, word is subject to tilde expansion, parameter expansion, command substitution,
       and arithmetic expansion.

       When not performing substring expansion, using the forms documented below (e.g., :-), bash tests for a param‐
       eter that is unset or null.  Omitting the colon results in a test only for a parameter that is unset.

       ${parameter:-word}
              Use  Default Values.  If parameter is unset or null, the expansion of word is substituted.  Otherwise,
              the value of parameter is substituted.
       ${parameter:=word}
              Assign Default Values.  If parameter is unset or null, the expansion of word is assigned to parameter.
              The  value  of parameter is then substituted.  Positional parameters and special parameters may not be
              assigned to in this way.
       ${parameter:?word}
              Display Error if Null or Unset.  If parameter is null or unset, the expansion of word (or a message to
              that  effect  if  word  is  not  present) is written to the standard error and the shell, if it is not
              interactive, exits.  Otherwise, the value of parameter is substituted.
       ${parameter:+word}
              Use Alternate Value.  If parameter is null or unset, nothing is substituted, otherwise  the  expansion
              of word is substituted.
       ${parameter:offset}
       ${parameter:offset:length}
              Substring  Expansion.   Expands  to  up to length characters of the value of parameter starting at the
              character specified by offset.  If parameter is @, an indexed array subscripted by @ or *, or an asso‐
              ciative  array name, the results differ as described below.  If length is omitted, expands to the sub‐
              string of the value of parameter starting at the character specified by offset and  extending  to  the
              end of the value.  length and offset are arithmetic expressions (see ARITHMETIC EVALUATION below).

              If  offset evaluates to a number less than zero, the value is used as an offset in characters from the
              end of the value of parameter.  If length evaluates to a number less than zero, it is  interpreted  as
              an offset in characters from the end of the value of parameter rather than a number of characters, and
              the expansion is the characters between offset and that result.  Note that a negative offset  must  be
              separated from the colon by at least one space to avoid being confused with the :- expansion.

              If  parameter is @, the result is length positional parameters beginning at offset.  A negative offset
              is taken relative to one greater than the greatest positional parameter, so an offset of -1  evaluates
              to  the last positional parameter.  It is an expansion error if length evaluates to a number less than
              zero.

              If parameter is an indexed array name subscripted by @ or *, the result is the length members  of  the
              array  beginning  with  ${parameter[offset]}.  A negative offset is taken relative to one greater than
              the maximum index of the specified array.  It is an expansion error if length evaluates  to  a  number
              less than zero.

              Substring expansion applied to an associative array produces undefined results.

              Substring indexing is zero-based unless the positional parameters are used, in which case the indexing
              starts at 1 by default.  If offset is 0, and the positional parameters are used, $0 is prefixed to the
              list.

       ${!prefix*}
       ${!prefix@}
              Names  matching prefix.  Expands to the names of variables whose names begin with prefix, separated by
              the first character of the IFS special variable.  When @ is used and the expansion appears within dou‐
              ble quotes, each variable name expands to a separate word.

       ${!name[@]}
       ${!name[*]}
              List  of  array  keys.   If  name  is  an  array variable, expands to the list of array indices (keys)
              assigned in name.  If name is not an array, expands to 0 if name is set and null otherwise.  When @ is
              used and the expansion appears within double quotes, each key expands to a separate word.

       ${#parameter}
              Parameter length.  The length in characters of the value of parameter is substituted.  If parameter is
              * or @, the value substituted is the number of positional parameters.  If parameter is an  array  name
              subscripted  by * or @, the value substituted is the number of elements in the array.  If parameter is
              an indexed array name subscripted by a negative number, that number is interpreted as relative to  one
              greater than the maximum index of parameter, so negative indices count back from the end of the array,
              and an index of -1 references the last element.

       ${parameter#word}
       ${parameter##word}
              Remove matching prefix pattern.  The word is expanded to produce a pattern just as in pathname  expan‐
              sion.   If  the pattern matches the beginning of the value of parameter, then the result of the expan‐
              sion is the expanded value of parameter with the shortest matching pattern (the  ``#''  case)  or  the
              longest matching pattern (the ``##'' case) deleted.  If parameter is @ or *, the pattern removal oper‐
              ation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, and the expansion is the  resultant  list.   If
              parameter  is  an  array variable subscripted with @ or *, the pattern removal operation is applied to
              each member of the array in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list.

       ${parameter%word}
       ${parameter%%word}
              Remove matching suffix pattern.  The word is expanded to produce a pattern just as in pathname  expan‐
              sion.   If  the pattern matches a trailing portion of the expanded value of parameter, then the result
              of the expansion is the expanded value of parameter with the  shortest  matching  pattern  (the  ``%''
              case)  or the longest matching pattern (the ``%%'' case) deleted.  If parameter is @ or *, the pattern
              removal operation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, and the expansion is the  resultant
              list.   If  parameter  is  an array variable subscripted with @ or *, the pattern removal operation is
              applied to each member of the array in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list.

       ${parameter/pattern/string}
              Pattern substitution.  The pattern is expanded to produce a pattern just  as  in  pathname  expansion.
              Parameter  is expanded and the longest match of pattern against its value is replaced with string.  If
              pattern begins with /, all matches of pattern are replaced with string.  Normally only the first match
              is replaced.  If pattern begins with #, it must match at the beginning of the expanded value of param‐
              eter.  If pattern begins with %, it must match at the end of the  expanded  value  of  parameter.   If
              string is null, matches of pattern are deleted and the / following pattern may be omitted.  If parame‐
              ter is @ or *, the substitution operation is applied to each positional parameter  in  turn,  and  the
              expansion  is the resultant list.  If parameter is an array variable subscripted with @ or *, the sub‐
              stitution operation is applied to each member of the array in turn, and the expansion is the resultant
              list.

       ${parameter^pattern}
       ${parameter^^pattern}
       ${parameter,pattern}
       ${parameter,,pattern}
              Case  modification.  This expansion modifies the case of alphabetic characters in parameter.  The pat‐
              tern is expanded to produce a pattern just as in pathname expansion.  Each character in  the  expanded
              value  of  parameter is tested against pattern, and, if it matches the pattern, its case is converted.
              The pattern should not attempt to match more than one character.  The ^  operator  converts  lowercase
              letters  matching  pattern  to uppercase; the , operator converts matching uppercase letters to lower‐
              case.  The ^^ and ,, expansions convert each matched character in the expanded  value;  the  ^  and  ,
              expansions  match  and convert only the first character in the expanded value.  If pattern is omitted,
              it is treated like a ?, which matches every character.  If parameter is @ or *, the case  modification
              operation  is  applied  to each positional parameter in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list.
              If parameter is an array variable subscripted with @ or *, the case modification operation is  applied
              to each member of the array in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list.

   Command Substitution
       Command substitution allows the output of a command to replace the command name.  There are two forms:

              $(command)
       or
              `command`

       Bash  performs  the  expansion  by executing command and replacing the command substitution with the standard
       output of the command, with any trailing newlines deleted.  Embedded newlines are not deleted, but  they  may
       be removed during word splitting.  The command substitution $(cat file) can be replaced by the equivalent but
       faster $(< file).

       When the old-style backquote form of substitution is used, backslash retains its literal meaning except  when
       followed by $, `, or \.  The first backquote not preceded by a backslash terminates the command substitution.
       When using the $(command) form, all characters between the parentheses make up the command; none are  treated
       specially.

       Command  substitutions  may  be  nested.  To nest when using the backquoted form, escape the inner backquotes
       with backslashes.

       If the substitution appears within double quotes, word splitting and pathname expansion are not performed  on
       the results.

   Arithmetic Expansion
       Arithmetic  expansion  allows  the evaluation of an arithmetic expression and the substitution of the result.
       The format for arithmetic expansion is:

              $((expression))

       The old format $[expression] is deprecated and will be removed in upcoming versions of bash.

       The expression is treated as if it were within double quotes, but a double quote inside  the  parentheses  is
       not  treated  specially.  All tokens in the expression undergo parameter and variable expansion, command sub‐
       stitution, and quote removal.  The result is treated as the arithmetic expression to  be  evaluated.   Arith‐
       metic expansions may be nested.

       The  evaluation  is performed according to the rules listed below under ARITHMETIC EVALUATION.  If expression
       is invalid, bash prints a message indicating failure and no substitution occurs.

   Process Substitution
       Process substitution is supported on systems that support named pipes (FIFOs) or the /dev/fd method of naming
       open  files.  It takes the form of <(list) or >(list).  The process list is run with its input or output con‐
       nected to a FIFO or some file in /dev/fd.  The name of this file is passed as an argument to the current com‐
       mand as the result of the expansion.  If the >(list) form is used, writing to the file will provide input for
       list.  If the <(list) form is used, the file passed as an argument should be read to  obtain  the  output  of
       list.

       When  available, process substitution is performed simultaneously with parameter and variable expansion, com‐
       mand substitution, and arithmetic expansion.

   Word Splitting
       The shell scans the results of parameter expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion  that  did
       not occur within double quotes for word splitting.

       The  shell  treats  each character of IFS as a delimiter, and splits the results of the other expansions into
       words  using  these  characters  as  field  terminators.   If  IFS  is  unset,  or  its  value   is   exactly
       <space><tab><newline>,  the default, then sequences of <space>, <tab>, and <newline> at the beginning and end
       of the results of the previous expansions are ignored, and any sequence of IFS characters not at  the  begin‐
       ning or end serves to delimit words.  If IFS has a value other than the default, then sequences of the white‐
       space characters space and tab are ignored at the beginning and end of the word, as long  as  the  whitespace
       character  is in the value of IFS (an IFS whitespace character).  Any character in IFS that is not IFS white‐
       space, along with any adjacent IFS whitespace characters, delimits a field.  A  sequence  of  IFS  whitespace
       characters is also treated as a delimiter.  If the value of IFS is null, no word splitting occurs.

       Explicit null arguments ("" or '') are retained.  Unquoted implicit null arguments, resulting from the expan‐
       sion of parameters that have no values, are removed.  If a parameter with no value is expanded within  double
       quotes, a null argument results and is retained.

       Note that if no expansion occurs, no splitting is performed.

   Pathname Expansion
       After word splitting, unless the -f option has been set, bash scans each word for the characters *, ?, and [.
       If one of these characters appears, then the word is regarded as a pattern, and replaced with  an  alphabeti‐
       cally  sorted  list of filenames matching the pattern (see Pattern Matching below).  If no matching filenames
       are found, and the shell option nullglob is not enabled, the word is left unchanged.  If the nullglob  option
       is  set,  and no matches are found, the word is removed.  If the failglob shell option is set, and no matches
       are found, an error message is printed and the command is not executed.  If the shell  option  nocaseglob  is
       enabled,  the  match  is performed without regard to the case of alphabetic characters.  Note that when using
       range expressions like [a-z] (see below), letters of the other case may be included, depending on the setting
       of LC_COLLATE.  When a pattern is used for pathname expansion, the character ``.''  at the start of a name or
       immediately following a slash must be matched explicitly, unless the  shell  option  dotglob  is  set.   When
       matching a pathname, the slash character must always be matched explicitly.  In other cases, the ``.''  char‐
       acter is not treated specially.  See the description of shopt  below  under  SHELL  BUILTIN  COMMANDS  for  a
       description of the nocaseglob, nullglob, failglob, and dotglob shell options.

       The GLOBIGNORE shell variable may be used to restrict the set of filenames matching a pattern.  If GLOBIGNORE
       is set, each matching filename that also matches one of the patterns in GLOBIGNORE is removed from  the  list
       of  matches.   The filenames ``.''  and ``..''  are always ignored when GLOBIGNORE is set and not null.  How‐
       ever, setting GLOBIGNORE to a non-null value has the effect of enabling the  dotglob  shell  option,  so  all
       other  filenames beginning with a ``.''  will match.  To get the old behavior of ignoring filenames beginning
       with a ``.'', make ``.*''  one of the patterns in GLOBIGNORE.  The dotglob option is disabled when GLOBIGNORE
       is unset.

       Pattern Matching

       Any  character  that appears in a pattern, other than the special pattern characters described below, matches
       itself.  The NUL character may not occur in a pattern.  A backslash  escapes  the  following  character;  the
       escaping  backslash is discarded when matching.  The special pattern characters must be quoted if they are to
       be matched literally.

       The special pattern characters have the following meanings:

              *      Matches any string, including the null string.  When the globstar shell option is enabled,  and
                     *  is used in a pathname expansion context, two adjacent *s used as a single pattern will match
                     all files and zero or more directories and subdirectories.  If followed by a /, two adjacent *s
                     will match only directories and subdirectories.
              ?      Matches any single character.
              [...]  Matches any one of the enclosed characters.  A pair of characters separated by a hyphen denotes
                     a range expression; any character that falls between those two characters, inclusive, using the
                     current locale's collating sequence and character set, is matched.  If the first character fol‐
                     lowing the [ is a !  or a ^ then any character not enclosed is matched.  The sorting  order  of
                     characters  in  range  expressions  is  determined  by the current locale and the values of the
                     LC_COLLATE or LC_ALL shell variables, if set.  To  obtain  the  traditional  interpretation  of
                     range  expressions, where [a-d] is equivalent to [abcd], set value of the LC_ALL shell variable
                     to C, or enable the globasciiranges shell option.  A - may be matched by including  it  as  the
                     first  or last character in the set.  A ] may be matched by including it as the first character
                     in the set.

                     Within [ and ], character classes can be specified using the syntax [:class:], where  class  is
                     one of the following classes defined in the POSIX standard:
                     alnum alpha ascii blank cntrl digit graph lower print punct space upper word xdigit
                     A  character  class  matches  any  character belonging to that class.  The word character class
                     matches letters, digits, and the character _.

                     Within [ and ], an equivalence class can be specified using the syntax [=c=], which matches all
                     characters  with  the same collation weight (as defined by the current locale) as the character
                     c.

                     Within [ and ], the syntax [.symbol.] matches the collating symbol symbol.

       If the extglob shell option is enabled using the shopt builtin, several extended pattern  matching  operators
       are  recognized.  In the following description, a pattern-list is a list of one or more patterns separated by
       a |.  Composite patterns may be formed using one or more of the following sub-patterns:

              ?(pattern-list)
                     Matches zero or one occurrence of the given patterns
              *(pattern-list)
                     Matches zero or more occurrences of the given patterns
              +(pattern-list)
                     Matches one or more occurrences of the given patterns
              @(pattern-list)
                     Matches one of the given patterns
              !(pattern-list)
                     Matches anything except one of the given patterns

   Quote Removal
       After the preceding expansions, all unquoted occurrences of the characters \, ', and " that  did  not  result
       from one of the above expansions are removed.

REDIRECTION
       Before  a command is executed, its input and output may be redirected using a special notation interpreted by
       the shell.  Redirection allows commands' file handles to be duplicated, opened, closed, made to refer to dif‐
       ferent files, and can change the files the command reads from and writes to.  Redirection may also be used to
       modify file handles in the current shell execution environment.  The following redirection operators may pre‐
       cede  or  appear anywhere within a simple command or may follow a command.  Redirections are processed in the
       order they appear, from left to right.

       Each redirection that may be preceded by a file descriptor number may instead be preceded by a  word  of  the
       form  {varname}.   In  this case, for each redirection operator except >&- and <&-, the shell will allocate a
       file descriptor greater than or equal to 10 and assign it to varname.  If >&- or <&-  is  preceded  by  {var‐
       name}, the value of varname defines the file descriptor to close.

       In the following descriptions, if the file descriptor number is omitted, and the first character of the redi‐
       rection operator is <, the redirection refers to the standard input (file descriptor 0).  If the first  char‐
       acter of the redirection operator is >, the redirection refers to the standard output (file descriptor 1).

       The  word  following  the redirection operator in the following descriptions, unless otherwise noted, is sub‐
       jected to brace expansion, tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion,  command  substitution,  arith‐
       metic expansion, quote removal, pathname expansion, and word splitting.  If it expands to more than one word,
       bash reports an error.

       Note that the order of redirections is significant.  For example, the command

              ls > dirlist 2>&1

       directs both standard output and standard error to the file dirlist, while the command

              ls 2>&1 > dirlist

       directs only the standard output to file dirlist, because the standard error was duplicated from the standard
       output before the standard output was redirected to dirlist.

       Bash  handles  several  filenames specially when they are used in redirections, as described in the following
       table:

              /dev/fd/fd
                     If fd is a valid integer, file descriptor fd is duplicated.
              /dev/stdin
                     File descriptor 0 is duplicated.
              /dev/stdout
                     File descriptor 1 is duplicated.
              /dev/stderr
                     File descriptor 2 is duplicated.
              /dev/tcp/host/port
                     If host is a valid hostname or Internet address, and port is an integer port number or  service
                     name, bash attempts to open the corresponding TCP socket.
              /dev/udp/host/port
                     If  host is a valid hostname or Internet address, and port is an integer port number or service
                     name, bash attempts to open the corresponding UDP socket.

       A failure to open or create a file causes the redirection to fail.

       Redirections using file descriptors greater than 9 should be used with care, as they may conflict  with  file
       descriptors the shell uses internally.

       Note that the exec builtin command can make redirections take effect in the current shell.

   Redirecting Input
       Redirection  of  input causes the file whose name results from the expansion of word to be opened for reading
       on file descriptor n, or the standard input (file descriptor 0) if n is not specified.

       The general format for redirecting input is:

              [n]<word

   Redirecting Output
       Redirection of output causes the file whose name results from the expansion of word to be opened for  writing
       on file descriptor n, or the standard output (file descriptor 1) if n is not specified.  If the file does not
       exist it is created; if it does exist it is truncated to zero size.

       The general format for redirecting output is:

              [n]>word

       If the redirection operator is >, and the noclobber option to the set builtin has been enabled, the redirect‐
       ion will fail if the file whose name results from the expansion of word exists and is a regular file.  If the
       redirection operator is >|, or the redirection operator is > and the noclobber option to the set builtin com‐
       mand is not enabled, the redirection is attempted even if the file named by word exists.

   Appending Redirected Output
       Redirection  of  output  in  this fashion causes the file whose name results from the expansion of word to be
       opened for appending on file descriptor n, or the standard output (file descriptor 1) if n is not  specified.
       If the file does not exist it is created.

       The general format for appending output is:

              [n]>>word

   Redirecting Standard Output and Standard Error
       This  construct  allows  both  the  standard  output  (file descriptor 1) and the standard error output (file
       descriptor 2) to be redirected to the file whose name is the expansion of word.

       There are two formats for redirecting standard output and standard error:

              &>word
       and
              >&word

       Of the two forms, the first is preferred.  This is semantically equivalent to

              >word 2>&1

       When using the second form, word may not expand to a number or -.  If it does,  other  redirection  operators
       apply (see Duplicating File Descriptors below) for compatibility reasons.

   Appending Standard Output and Standard Error
       This  construct  allows  both  the  standard  output  (file descriptor 1) and the standard error output (file
       descriptor 2) to be appended to the file whose name is the expansion of word.

       The format for appending standard output and standard error is:

              &>>word

       This is semantically equivalent to

              >>word 2>&1

       (see Duplicating File Descriptors below).

   Here Documents
       This type of redirection instructs the shell to read input from the current source until  a  line  containing
       only  delimiter  (with  no trailing blanks) is seen.  All of the lines read up to that point are then used as
       the standard input for a command.

       The format of here-documents is:

              <<[-]word
                      here-document
              delimiter

       No parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion,  or  pathname  expansion  is
       performed  on  word.   If  any characters in word are quoted, the delimiter is the result of quote removal on
       word, and the lines in the here-document are not expanded.  If word is unquoted, all lines of the  here-docu‐
       ment  are  subjected  to  parameter  expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion, the character
       sequence \<newline> is ignored, and \ must be used to quote the characters \, $, and `.

       If the redirection operator is <<-, then all leading tab characters are stripped from  input  lines  and  the
       line containing delimiter.  This allows here-documents within shell scripts to be indented in a natural fash‐
       ion.

   Here Strings
       A variant of here documents, the format is:

              <<<word

       The word undergoes brace expansion, tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command  substitution,
       arithmetic  expansion,  and  quote  removal.   Pathname  expansion and word splitting are not performed.  The
       result is supplied as a single string to the command on its standard input.

   Duplicating File Descriptors
       The redirection operator

              [n]<&word

       is used to duplicate input file descriptors.  If word expands to one or  more  digits,  the  file  descriptor
       denoted  by  n  is  made  to  be a copy of that file descriptor.  If the digits in word do not specify a file
       descriptor open for input, a redirection error occurs.  If word evaluates to -, file descriptor n is  closed.
       If n is not specified, the standard input (file descriptor 0) is used.

       The operator

              [n]>&word

       is  used  similarly  to  duplicate output file descriptors.  If n is not specified, the standard output (file
       descriptor 1) is used.  If the digits in word do not specify a file descriptor open for output, a redirection
       error  occurs.  If word evaluates to -, file descriptor n is closed.  As a special case, if n is omitted, and
       word does not expand to one or more digits or -, the standard output and standard  error  are  redirected  as
       described previously.

   Moving File Descriptors
       The redirection operator

              [n]<&digit-

       moves  the  file descriptor digit to file descriptor n, or the standard input (file descriptor 0) if n is not
       specified.  digit is closed after being duplicated to n.

       Similarly, the redirection operator

              [n]>&digit-

       moves the file descriptor digit to file descriptor n, or the standard output (file descriptor 1) if n is  not
       specified.

   Opening File Descriptors for Reading and Writing
       The redirection operator

              [n]<>word

       causes  the  file  whose  name  is  the  expansion  of word to be opened for both reading and writing on file
       descriptor n, or on file descriptor 0 if n is not specified.  If the file does not exist, it is created.

ALIASES
       Aliases allow a string to be substituted for a word when it is used as the first word of  a  simple  command.
       The  shell  maintains a list of aliases that may be set and unset with the alias and unalias builtin commands
       (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below).  The first word of each simple command, if unquoted, is checked to see if
       it  has  an alias.  If so, that word is replaced by the text of the alias.  The characters /, $, `, and = and
       any of the shell metacharacters or quoting characters listed above may not appear  in  an  alias  name.   The
       replacement  text  may  contain any valid shell input, including shell metacharacters.  The first word of the
       replacement text is tested for aliases, but a word that is identical  to  an  alias  being  expanded  is  not
       expanded  a  second  time.  This means that one may alias ls to ls -F, for instance, and bash does not try to
       recursively expand the replacement text.  If the last character of the alias value is a blank, then the  next
       command word following the alias is also checked for alias expansion.

       Aliases are created and listed with the alias command, and removed with the unalias command.

       There is no mechanism for using arguments in the replacement text.  If arguments are needed, a shell function
       should be used (see FUNCTIONS below).

       Aliases are not expanded when the shell is not interactive, unless the expand_aliases  shell  option  is  set
       using shopt (see the description of shopt under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below).

       The  rules  concerning  the definition and use of aliases are somewhat confusing.  Bash always reads at least
       one complete line of input before executing any of the commands on that line.  Aliases are  expanded  when  a
       command  is  read,  not  when  it  is executed.  Therefore, an alias definition appearing on the same line as
       another command does not take effect until the next line of input is read.  The commands following the  alias
       definition on that line are not affected by the new alias.  This behavior is also an issue when functions are
       executed.  Aliases are expanded when a function definition is  read,  not  when  the  function  is  executed,
       because  a function definition is itself a compound command.  As a consequence, aliases defined in a function
       are not available until after that function is executed.  To be safe, always put alias definitions on a sepa‐
       rate line, and do not use alias in compound commands.

       For almost every purpose, aliases are superseded by shell functions.

FUNCTIONS
       A  shell function, defined as described above under SHELL GRAMMAR, stores a series of commands for later exe‐
       cution.  When the name of a shell function is used as a simple command name, the list of commands  associated
       with  that  function  name  is  executed.  Functions are executed in the context of the current shell; no new
       process is created to interpret them (contrast this with the execution of a shell script).  When  a  function
       is  executed,  the arguments to the function become the positional parameters during its execution.  The spe‐
       cial parameter # is updated to reflect the change.  Special parameter 0 is unchanged.  The first  element  of
       the FUNCNAME variable is set to the name of the function while the function is executing.

       All  other  aspects  of  the shell execution environment are identical between a function and its caller with
       these exceptions:  the DEBUG and RETURN traps (see the description of the trap builtin  under  SHELL  BUILTIN
       COMMANDS below) are not inherited unless the function has been given the trace attribute (see the description
       of the declare builtin below) or the -o functrace shell option has been enabled  with  the  set  builtin  (in
       which case all functions inherit the DEBUG and RETURN traps), and the ERR trap is not inherited unless the -o
       errtrace shell option has been enabled.

       Variables local to the function may be declared with the local builtin command.   Ordinarily,  variables  and
       their values are shared between the function and its caller.

       The  FUNCNEST  variable,  if set to a numeric value greater than 0, defines a maximum function nesting level.
       Function invocations that exceed the limit cause the entire command to abort.

       If the builtin command return is executed in a function, the function completes and  execution  resumes  with
       the  next  command  after  the function call.  Any command associated with the RETURN trap is executed before
       execution resumes.  When a function completes, the values of the positional parameters and the special param‐
       eter # are restored to the values they had prior to the function's execution.

       Function  names  and definitions may be listed with the -f option to the declare or typeset builtin commands.
       The -F option to declare or typeset will list the function names only (and optionally  the  source  file  and
       line number, if the extdebug shell option is enabled).  Functions may be exported so that subshells automati‐
       cally have them defined with the -f option to the export builtin.  A function definition may be deleted using
       the -f option to the unset builtin.  Note that shell functions and variables with the same name may result in
       multiple identically-named entries in the environment passed to the shell's children.  Care should  be  taken
       in cases where this may cause a problem.

       Functions  may be recursive.  The FUNCNEST variable may be used to limit the depth of the function call stack
       and restrict the number of function invocations.  By default, no limit is imposed on the number of  recursive
       calls.

ARITHMETIC EVALUATION
       The shell allows arithmetic expressions to be evaluated, under certain circumstances (see the let and declare
       builtin commands and Arithmetic Expansion).  Evaluation is done in fixed-width integers  with  no  check  for
       overflow, though division by 0 is trapped and flagged as an error.  The operators and their precedence, asso‐
       ciativity, and values are the same as in the C language.  The following list of  operators  is  grouped  into
       levels of equal-precedence operators.  The levels are listed in order of decreasing precedence.

       id++ id--
              variable post-increment and post-decrement
       ++id --id
              variable pre-increment and pre-decrement
       - +    unary minus and plus
       ! ~    logical and bitwise negation
       **     exponentiation
       * / %  multiplication, division, remainder
       + -    addition, subtraction
       << >>  left and right bitwise shifts
       <= >= < >
              comparison
       == !=  equality and inequality
       &      bitwise AND
       ^      bitwise exclusive OR
       |      bitwise OR
       &&     logical AND
       ||     logical OR
       expr?expr:expr
              conditional operator
       = *= /= %= += -= <<= >>= &= ^= |=
              assignment
       expr1 , expr2
              comma

       Shell variables are allowed as operands; parameter expansion is performed before the expression is evaluated.
       Within an expression, shell variables may also be referenced by name without using  the  parameter  expansion
       syntax.   A  shell  variable  that  is null or unset evaluates to 0 when referenced by name without using the
       parameter expansion syntax.  The value of a variable is evaluated as an arithmetic expression when it is ref‐
       erenced,  or when a variable which has been given the integer attribute using declare -i is assigned a value.
       A null value evaluates to 0.  A shell variable need not have its integer attribute turned on to be used in an
       expression.

       Constants with a leading 0 are interpreted as octal numbers.  A leading 0x or 0X denotes hexadecimal.  Other‐
       wise, numbers take the form [base#]n, where the optional base is a decimal number between 2 and 64 represent‐
       ing  the  arithmetic  base, and n is a number in that base.  If base# is omitted, then base 10 is used.  When
       specifying n, the digits greater< than 9 are represented by the lowercase letters, the uppercase letters,  @,
       and  _,  in  that  order.   If  base is less than or equal to 36, lowercase and uppercase letters may be used
       interchangeably to represent numbers between 10 and 35.

       Operators are evaluated in order of precedence.  Sub-expressions in parentheses are evaluated first  and  may
       override the precedence rules above.

CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS
       Conditional  expressions are used by the [[ compound command and the test and [ builtin commands to test file
       attributes and perform string and arithmetic comparisons.  Expressions are formed from the following unary or
       binary  primaries.  If any file argument to one of the primaries is of the form /dev/fd/n, then file descrip‐
       tor n is checked.  If the file argument to one of  the  primaries  is  one  of  /dev/stdin,  /dev/stdout,  or
       /dev/stderr, file descriptor 0, 1, or 2, respectively, is checked.

       Unless  otherwise  specified, primaries that operate on files follow symbolic links and operate on the target
       of the link, rather than the link itself.

       When used with [[, the < and > operators sort lexicographically using the current locale.  The  test  command
       sorts using ASCII ordering.

       -a file
              True if file exists.
       -b file
              True if file exists and is a block special file.
       -c file
              True if file exists and is a character special file.
       -d file
              True if file exists and is a directory.
       -e file
              True if file exists.
       -f file
              True if file exists and is a regular file.
       -g file
              True if file exists and is set-group-id.
       -h file
              True if file exists and is a symbolic link.
       -k file
              True if file exists and its ``sticky'' bit is set.
       -p file
              True if file exists and is a named pipe (FIFO).
       -r file
              True if file exists and is readable.
       -s file
              True if file exists and has a size greater than zero.
       -t fd  True if file descriptor fd is open and refers to a terminal.
       -u file
              True if file exists and its set-user-id bit is set.
       -w file
              True if file exists and is writable.
       -x file
              True if file exists and is executable.
       -G file
              True if file exists and is owned by the effective group id.
       -L file
              True if file exists and is a symbolic link.
       -N file
              True if file exists and has been modified since it was last read.
       -O file
              True if file exists and is owned by the effective user id.
       -S file
              True if file exists and is a socket.
       file1 -ef file2
              True if file1 and file2 refer to the same device and inode numbers.
       file1 -nt file2
              True  if file1 is newer (according to modification date) than file2, or if file1 exists and file2 does
              not.
       file1 -ot file2
              True if file1 is older than file2, or if file2 exists and file1 does not.
       -o optname
              True if the shell option optname is enabled.  See the list of options under the description of the  -o
              option to the set builtin below.
       -v varname
              True if the shell variable varname is set (has been assigned a value).
       -R varname
              True if the shell variable varname is set and is a name reference.
       -z string
              True if the length of string is zero.
       string
       -n string
              True if the length of string is non-zero.

       string1 == string2
       string1 = string2
              True  if  the  strings are equal.  = should be used with the test command for POSIX conformance.  When
              used with the [[ command, this performs pattern matching as described above (Compound Commands).

       string1 != string2
              True if the strings are not equal.

       string1 < string2
              True if string1 sorts before string2 lexicographically.

       string1 > string2
              True if string1 sorts after string2 lexicographically.

       arg1 OP arg2
              OP is one of -eq, -ne, -lt, -le, -gt, or -ge.  These arithmetic binary operators return true  if  arg1
              is equal to, not equal to, less than, less than or equal to, greater than, or greater than or equal to
              arg2, respectively.  Arg1 and arg2 may be positive or negative integers.

SIMPLE COMMAND EXPANSION
       When a simple command is executed, the shell performs the following  expansions,  assignments,  and  redirec‐
       tions, from left to right.

       1.     The  words  that  the parser has marked as variable assignments (those preceding the command name) and
              redirections are saved for later processing.

       2.     The words that are not variable assignments or redirections are expanded.  If any words  remain  after
              expansion, the first word is taken to be the name of the command and the remaining words are the argu‐
              ments.

       3.     Redirections are performed as described above under REDIRECTION.

       4.     The text after the = in each variable assignment undergoes tilde expansion, parameter expansion,  com‐
              mand substitution, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal before being assigned to the variable.

       If  no  command  name results, the variable assignments affect the current shell environment.  Otherwise, the
       variables are added to the environment of the executed command and do not affect the current  shell  environ‐
       ment.   If any of the assignments attempts to assign a value to a readonly variable, an error occurs, and the
       command exits with a non-zero status.

       If no command name results, redirections are performed, but do not affect the current shell  environment.   A
       redirection error causes the command to exit with a non-zero status.

       If  there is a command name left after expansion, execution proceeds as described below.  Otherwise, the com‐
       mand exits.  If one of the expansions contained a command substitution, the exit status of the command is the
       exit  status of the last command substitution performed.  If there were no command substitutions, the command
       exits with a status of zero.

COMMAND EXECUTION
       After a command has been split into words, if it results in a simple command and an optional  list  of  argu‐
       ments, the following actions are taken.

       If  the  command name contains no slashes, the shell attempts to locate it.  If there exists a shell function
       by that name, that function is invoked as described above in FUNCTIONS.  If the name does not match  a  func‐
       tion, the shell searches for it in the list of shell builtins.  If a match is found, that builtin is invoked.

       If the name is neither a shell function nor a builtin, and contains no slashes, bash searches each element of
       the PATH for a directory containing an executable file by that name.  Bash uses a hash table to remember  the
       full  pathnames  of  executable  files  (see  hash under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below).  A full search of the
       directories in PATH is performed only if the command is not found in the hash table.  If the search is unsuc‐
       cessful,  the  shell  searches for a defined shell function named command_not_found_handle.  If that function
       exists, it is invoked with the original command and the original command's arguments as  its  arguments,  and
       the  function's exit status becomes the exit status of the shell.  If that function is not defined, the shell
       prints an error message and returns an exit status of 127.

       If the search is successful, or if the command name contains one or more  slashes,  the  shell  executes  the
       named  program  in  a separate execution environment.  Argument 0 is set to the name given, and the remaining
       arguments to the command are set to the arguments given, if any.

       If this execution fails because the file is not in executable format, and the file is not a directory, it  is
       assumed  to  be a shell script, a file containing shell commands.  A subshell is spawned to execute it.  This
       subshell reinitializes itself, so that the effect is as if a new shell had been invoked to handle the script,
       with  the  exception  that  the  locations  of  commands remembered by the parent (see hash below under SHELL
       BUILTIN COMMANDS) are retained by the child.

       If the program is a file beginning with #!, the remainder of the first line specifies an interpreter for  the
       program.   The  shell  executes  the  specified interpreter on operating systems that do not handle this exe‐
       cutable format themselves.  The arguments to the interpreter consist of a single optional argument  following
       the  interpreter  name on the first line of the program, followed by the name of the program, followed by the
       command arguments, if any.

COMMAND EXECUTION ENVIRONMENT
       The shell has an execution environment, which consists of the following:

       ·      open files inherited by the shell at invocation, as modified by  redirections  supplied  to  the  exec
              builtin

       ·      the current working directory as set by cd, pushd, or popd, or inherited by the shell at invocation

       ·      the file creation mode mask as set by umask or inherited from the shell's parent

       ·      current traps set by trap

       ·      shell  parameters that are set by variable assignment or with set or inherited from the shell's parent
              in the environment

       ·      shell functions defined during execution or inherited from the shell's parent in the environment

       ·      options enabled at invocation (either by default or with command-line arguments) or by set

       ·      options enabled by shopt

       ·      shell aliases defined with alias

       ·      various process IDs, including those of background jobs, the value of $$, and the value of PPID

       When a simple command other than a builtin or shell function is to be executed, it is invoked in  a  separate
       execution  environment that consists of the following.  Unless otherwise noted, the values are inherited from
       the shell.


       ·      the shell's open files, plus any modifications and additions specified by redirections to the command

       ·      the current working directory

       ·      the file creation mode mask

       ·      shell variables and functions marked for export, along with variables exported for the command, passed
              in the environment

       ·      traps caught by the shell are reset to the values inherited from the shell's parent, and traps ignored
              by the shell are ignored

       A command invoked in this separate environment cannot affect the shell's execution environment.

       Command substitution, commands grouped with parentheses, and asynchronous commands are invoked in a  subshell
       environment  that is a duplicate of the shell environment, except that traps caught by the shell are reset to
       the values that the shell inherited from its parent at invocation.  Builtin commands that are invoked as part
       of  a  pipeline are also executed in a subshell environment.  Changes made to the subshell environment cannot
       affect the shell's execution environment.

       Subshells spawned to execute command substitutions inherit the value of the -e option from the parent  shell.
       When not in posix mode, bash clears the -e option in such subshells.

       If  a command is followed by a & and job control is not active, the default standard input for the command is
       the empty file /dev/null.  Otherwise, the invoked command inherits the file descriptors of the calling  shell
       as modified by redirections.

ENVIRONMENT
       When  a  program  is  invoked  it  is  given  an  array of strings called the environment.  This is a list of
       name-value pairs, of the form name=value.

       The shell provides several ways to manipulate the environment.  On invocation, the shell scans its own  envi‐
       ronment  and creates a parameter for each name found, automatically marking it for export to child processes.
       Executed commands inherit the environment.  The export and declare -x commands allow parameters and functions
       to be added to and deleted from the environment.  If the value of a parameter in the environment is modified,
       the new value becomes part of the environment, replacing the old.  The environment inherited by any  executed
       command  consists  of  the  shell's  initial environment, whose values may be modified in the shell, less any
       pairs removed by the unset command, plus any additions via the export and declare -x commands.

       The environment for any simple command or function may be augmented temporarily by prefixing it with  parame‐
       ter  assignments,  as described above in PARAMETERS.  These assignment statements affect only the environment
       seen by that command.

       If the -k option is set (see the set builtin command below), then all parameter assignments are placed in the
       environment for a command, not just those that precede the command name.

       When  bash  invokes an external command, the variable _ is set to the full filename of the command and passed
       to that command in its environment.

EXIT STATUS
       The exit status of an executed command is the value returned by the waitpid system call or  equivalent  func‐
       tion.   Exit  statuses fall between 0 and 255, though, as explained below, the shell may use values above 125
       specially.  Exit statuses from shell builtins and compound commands are also limited  to  this  range.  Under
       certain circumstances, the shell will use special values to indicate specific failure modes.

       For  the  shell's  purposes,  a command which exits with a zero exit status has succeeded.  An exit status of
       zero indicates success.  A non-zero exit status indicates failure.  When a command terminates on a fatal sig‐
       nal N, bash uses the value of 128+N as the exit status.

       If  a command is not found, the child process created to execute it returns a status of 127.  If a command is
       found but is not executable, the return status is 126.

       If a command fails because of an error during expansion or redirection, the exit status is greater than zero.

       Shell builtin commands return a status of 0 (true) if successful, and non-zero (false)  if  an  error  occurs
       while they execute.  All builtins return an exit status of 2 to indicate incorrect usage.

       Bash itself returns the exit status of the last command executed, unless a syntax error occurs, in which case
       it exits with a non-zero value.  See also the exit builtin command below.

SIGNALS
       When bash is interactive, in the absence of any traps, it ignores SIGTERM (so that kill 0 does  not  kill  an
       interactive  shell),  and  SIGINT  is caught and handled (so that the wait builtin is interruptible).  In all
       cases, bash ignores SIGQUIT.  If job control is in effect, bash ignores SIGTTIN, SIGTTOU, and SIGTSTP.

       Non-builtin commands run by bash have signal handlers set to the values inherited by the shell from its  par‐
       ent.  When job control is not in effect, asynchronous commands ignore SIGINT and SIGQUIT in addition to these
       inherited handlers.  Commands run as a result of command substitution ignore the keyboard-generated job  con‐
       trol signals SIGTTIN, SIGTTOU, and SIGTSTP.

       The shell exits by default upon receipt of a SIGHUP.  Before exiting, an interactive shell resends the SIGHUP
       to all jobs, running or stopped.  Stopped jobs are sent SIGCONT to ensure that they receive the  SIGHUP.   To
       prevent  the shell from sending the signal to a particular job, it should be removed from the jobs table with
       the disown builtin (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below) or marked to not receive SIGHUP using disown -h.

       If the huponexit shell option has been set with shopt, bash sends a SIGHUP to all jobs  when  an  interactive
       login shell exits.

       If  bash  is  waiting for a command to complete and receives a signal for which a trap has been set, the trap
       will not be executed until the command completes.  When bash is waiting for an asynchronous command  via  the
       wait  builtin,  the reception of a signal for which a trap has been set will cause the wait builtin to return
       immediately with an exit status greater than 128, immediately after which the trap is executed.

JOB CONTROL
       Job control refers to the ability to selectively stop (suspend)  the  execution  of  processes  and  continue
       (resume)  their execution at a later point.  A user typically employs this facility via an interactive inter‐
       face supplied jointly by the operating system kernel's terminal driver and bash.

       The shell associates a job with each pipeline.  It keeps a table of currently executing jobs,  which  may  be
       listed  with  the  jobs command.  When bash starts a job asynchronously (in the background), it prints a line
       that looks like:

              [1] 25647

       indicating that this job is job number 1 and that the process ID of the last process in the pipeline  associ‐
       ated  with  this  job is 25647.  All of the processes in a single pipeline are members of the same job.  Bash
       uses the job abstraction as the basis for job control.

       To facilitate the implementation of the user interface to job control, the  operating  system  maintains  the
       notion  of a current terminal process group ID.  Members of this process group (processes whose process group
       ID is equal to the current terminal process group ID) receive  keyboard-generated  signals  such  as  SIGINT.
       These processes are said to be in the foreground.  Background processes are those whose process group ID dif‐
       fers from the terminal's; such processes are immune to keyboard-generated signals.  Only foreground processes
       are  allowed  to  read from or, if the user so specifies with stty tostop, write to the terminal.  Background
       processes which attempt to read from (write to when stty tostop is in effect) the terminal are sent a SIGTTIN
       (SIGTTOU) signal by the kernel's terminal driver, which, unless caught, suspends the process.

       If  the  operating  system on which bash is running supports job control, bash contains facilities to use it.
       Typing the suspend character (typically ^Z, Control-Z) while a process is running causes that process  to  be
       stopped  and  returns control to bash.  Typing the delayed suspend character (typically ^Y, Control-Y) causes
       the process to be stopped when it attempts to read input from the terminal, and control  to  be  returned  to
       bash.   The  user may then manipulate the state of this job, using the bg command to continue it in the back‐
       ground, the fg command to continue it in the foreground, or the kill command to kill it.  A ^Z  takes  effect
       immediately, and has the additional side effect of causing pending output and typeahead to be discarded.

       There  are  a  number of ways to refer to a job in the shell.  The character % introduces a job specification
       (jobspec).  Job number n may be referred to as %n.  A job may also be referred to using a prefix of the  name
       used  to  start  it,  or  using  a  substring that appears in its command line.  For example, %ce refers to a
       stopped ce job.  If a prefix matches more than one job, bash reports an error.   Using  %?ce,  on  the  other
       hand, refers to any job containing the string ce in its command line.  If the substring matches more than one
       job, bash reports an error.  The symbols %% and %+ refer to the shell's notion of the current job,  which  is
       the  last  job  stopped while it was in the foreground or started in the background.  The previous job may be
       referenced using %-.  If there is only a single job, %+ and %- can both be used to refer  to  that  job.   In
       output pertaining to jobs (e.g., the output of the jobs command), the current job is always flagged with a +,
       and the previous job with a -.  A single % (with no accompanying job specification) also refers to  the  cur‐
       rent job.

       Simply  naming a job can be used to bring it into the foreground: %1 is a synonym for ``fg %1'', bringing job
       1 from the background into the foreground.  Similarly, ``%1 &'' resumes job 1 in the  background,  equivalent
       to ``bg %1''.

       The shell learns immediately whenever a job changes state.  Normally, bash waits until it is about to print a
       prompt before reporting changes in a job's status so as to not interrupt any other output.  If the -b  option
       to  the  set  builtin command is enabled, bash reports such changes immediately.  Any trap on SIGCHLD is exe‐
       cuted for each child that exits.

       If an attempt to exit bash is made while jobs are stopped (or, if the checkjobs shell option has been enabled
       using  the  shopt  builtin,  running),  the  shell  prints a warning message, and, if the checkjobs option is
       enabled, lists the jobs and their statuses.  The jobs command may then be used to inspect their status.  If a
       second  attempt to exit is made without an intervening command, the shell does not print another warning, and
       any stopped jobs are terminated.

PROMPTING
       When executing interactively, bash displays the primary prompt PS1 when it is ready to read  a  command,  and
       the secondary prompt PS2 when it needs more input to complete a command.  Bash allows these prompt strings to
       be customized by inserting a number of backslash-escaped special characters that are decoded as follows:
              \a     an ASCII bell character (07)
              \d     the date in "Weekday Month Date" format (e.g., "Tue May 26")
              \D{format}
                     the format is passed to strftime(3) and the result is inserted into the prompt string; an empty
                     format results in a locale-specific time representation.  The braces are required
              \e     an ASCII escape character (033)
              \h     the hostname up to the first `.'
              \H     the hostname
              \j     the number of jobs currently managed by the shell
              \l     the basename of the shell's terminal device name
              \n     newline
              \r     carriage return
              \s     the name of the shell, the basename of $0 (the portion following the final slash)
              \t     the current time in 24-hour HH:MM:SS format
              \T     the current time in 12-hour HH:MM:SS format
              \@     the current time in 12-hour am/pm format
              \A     the current time in 24-hour HH:MM format
              \u     the username of the current user
              \v     the version of bash (e.g., 2.00)
              \V     the release of bash, version + patch level (e.g., 2.00.0)
              \w     the  current  working  directory,  with  $HOME  abbreviated with a tilde (uses the value of the
                     PROMPT_DIRTRIM variable)
              \W     the basename of the current working directory, with $HOME abbreviated with a tilde
              \!     the history number of this command
              \#     the command number of this command
              \$     if the effective UID is 0, a #, otherwise a $
              \nnn   the character corresponding to the octal number nnn
              \\     a backslash
              \[     begin a sequence of non-printing characters, which could be used to embed  a  terminal  control
                     sequence into the prompt
              \]     end a sequence of non-printing characters

       The command number and the history number are usually different: the history number of a command is its posi‐
       tion in the history list, which may include commands restored from the  history  file  (see  HISTORY  below),
       while  the  command number is the position in the sequence of commands executed during the current shell ses‐
       sion.  After the string is decoded, it is expanded via parameter expansion, command substitution,  arithmetic
       expansion, and quote removal, subject to the value of the promptvars shell option (see the description of the
       shopt command under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below).

READLINE
       This is the library that handles reading input when using an interactive shell, unless the --noediting option
       is  given  at  shell invocation.  Line editing is also used when using the -e option to the read builtin.  By
       default, the line editing commands are similar to those of Emacs.  A vi-style line editing interface is  also
       available.   Line  editing  can be enabled at any time using the -o emacs or -o vi options to the set builtin
       (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below).  To turn off line editing after the shell is running, use the +o emacs or
       +o vi options to the set builtin.

   Readline Notation
       In  this  section, the Emacs-style notation is used to denote keystrokes.  Control keys are denoted by C-key,
       e.g., C-n means Control-N.  Similarly, meta keys are denoted by M-key, so M-x means  Meta-X.   (On  keyboards
       without a meta key, M-x means ESC x, i.e., press the Escape key then the x key.  This makes ESC the meta pre‐
       fix.  The combination M-C-x means ESC-Control-x, or press the Escape key then  hold  the  Control  key  while
       pressing the x key.)

       Readline  commands may be given numeric arguments, which normally act as a repeat count.  Sometimes, however,
       it is the sign of the argument that is significant.  Passing a negative argument to a command  that  acts  in
       the  forward  direction (e.g., kill-line) causes that command to act in a backward direction.  Commands whose
       behavior with arguments deviates from this are noted below.

       When a command is described as killing text, the text deleted is saved for possible future  retrieval  (yank‐
       ing).   The killed text is saved in a kill ring.  Consecutive kills cause the text to be accumulated into one
       unit, which can be yanked all at once.  Commands which do not kill text separate the chunks of  text  on  the
       kill ring.

   Readline Initialization
       Readline  is  customized  by putting commands in an initialization file (the inputrc file).  The name of this
       file is taken from the value of the INPUTRC variable.  If that variable is unset, the default is  ~/.inputrc.
       When  a program which uses the readline library starts up, the initialization file is read, and the key bind‐
       ings and variables are set.  There are only a few basic constructs allowed  in  the  readline  initialization
       file.   Blank  lines  are ignored.  Lines beginning with a # are comments.  Lines beginning with a $ indicate
       conditional constructs.  Other lines denote key bindings and variable settings.

       The default key-bindings may be changed with an inputrc file.  Other programs that use this library  may  add
       their own commands and bindings.

       For example, placing

              M-Control-u: universal-argument
       or
              C-Meta-u: universal-argument
       into the inputrc would make M-C-u execute the readline command universal-argument.

       The  following  symbolic  character  names  are recognized: RUBOUT, DEL, ESC, LFD, NEWLINE, RET, RETURN, SPC,
       SPACE, and TAB.

       In addition to command names, readline allows keys to be bound to a string that is inserted when the  key  is
       pressed (a macro).

   Readline Key Bindings
       The  syntax  for controlling key bindings in the inputrc file is simple.  All that is required is the name of
       the command or the text of a macro and a key sequence to which it should be bound. The name may be  specified
       in one of two ways: as a symbolic key name, possibly with Meta- or Control- prefixes, or as a key sequence.

       When using the form keyname:function-name or macro, keyname is the name of a key spelled out in English.  For
       example:

              Control-u: universal-argument
              Meta-Rubout: backward-kill-word
              Control-o: "> output"

       In the above example, C-u is bound to the function universal-argument, M-DEL is bound to the  function  back‐
       ward-kill-word,  and  C-o  is bound to run the macro expressed on the right hand side (that is, to insert the
       text ``> output'' into the line).

       In the second form, "keyseq":function-name or macro, keyseq differs from keyname above in that strings denot‐
       ing  an  entire  key  sequence may be specified by placing the sequence within double quotes.  Some GNU Emacs
       style key escapes can be used, as in the following example, but the symbolic character names are  not  recog‐
       nized.

              "\C-u": universal-argument
              "\C-x\C-r": re-read-init-file
              "\e[11~": "Function Key 1"

       In  this  example,  C-u  is again bound to the function universal-argument.  C-x C-r is bound to the function
       re-read-init-file, and ESC [ 1 1 ~ is bound to insert the text ``Function Key 1''.

       The full set of GNU Emacs style escape sequences is
              \C-    control prefix
              \M-    meta prefix
              \e     an escape character
              \\     backslash
              \"     literal "
              \'     literal '

       In addition to the GNU Emacs style escape sequences, a second set of backslash escapes is available:
              \a     alert (bell)
              \b     backspace
              \d     delete
              \f     form feed
              \n     newline
              \r     carriage return
              \t     horizontal tab
              \v     vertical tab
              \nnn   the eight-bit character whose value is the octal value nnn (one to three digits)
              \xHH   the eight-bit character whose value is the hexadecimal value HH (one or two hex digits)

       When entering the text of a macro, single or double quotes must be  used  to  indicate  a  macro  definition.
       Unquoted text is assumed to be a function name.  In the macro body, the backslash escapes described above are
       expanded.  Backslash will quote any other character in the macro text, including " and '.

       Bash allows the current readline key bindings to be displayed or modified with the bind builtin command.  The
       editing  mode  may  be switched during interactive use by using the -o option to the set builtin command (see
       SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below).

   Readline Variables
       Readline has variables that can be used to further customize its behavior.  A variable  may  be  set  in  the
       inputrc file with a statement of the form

              set variable-name value

       Except  where noted, readline variables can take the values On or Off (without regard to case).  Unrecognized
       variable names are ignored.  When a variable value is read, empty or null  values,  "on"  (case-insensitive),
       and  "1" are equivalent to On.  All other values are equivalent to Off.  The variables and their default val‐
       ues are:

       bell-style (audible)
              Controls what happens when readline wants to ring the terminal bell.  If set to none,  readline  never
              rings the bell.  If set to visible, readline uses a visible bell if one is available.  If set to audi‐
              ble, readline attempts to ring the terminal's bell.
       bind-tty-special-chars (On)
              If set to On, readline attempts to bind the control characters treated specially by the kernel's  ter‐
              minal driver to their readline equivalents.
       colored-stats (Off)
              If  set  to  On,  readline displays possible completions using different colors to indicate their file
              type.  The color definitions are taken from the value of the LS_COLORS environment variable.
       comment-begin (``#'')
              The string that is inserted when the readline insert-comment command is  executed.   This  command  is
              bound to M-# in emacs mode and to # in vi command mode.
       completion-ignore-case (Off)
              If set to On, readline performs filename matching and completion in a case-insensitive fashion.
       completion-prefix-display-length (0)
              The  length  in  characters  of  the common prefix of a list of possible completions that is displayed
              without modification.  When set to a value greater than zero, common prefixes longer than  this  value
              are replaced with an ellipsis when displaying possible completions.
       completion-query-items (100)
              This determines when the user is queried about viewing the number of possible completions generated by
              the possible-completions command.  It may be set to any integer value greater than or equal  to  zero.
              If the number of possible completions is greater than or equal to the value of this variable, the user
              is asked whether or not he wishes to view them; otherwise they are simply listed on the terminal.
       convert-meta (On)
              If set to On, readline will convert characters with the eighth bit set to an  ASCII  key  sequence  by
              stripping  the  eighth bit and prefixing an escape character (in effect, using escape as the meta pre‐
              fix).
       disable-completion (Off)
              If set to On, readline will inhibit word completion.  Completion characters will be inserted into  the
              line as if they had been mapped to self-insert.
       editing-mode (emacs)
              Controls  whether readline begins with a set of key bindings similar to Emacs or vi.  editing-mode can
              be set to either emacs or vi.
       echo-control-characters (On)
              When set to On, on operating systems that indicate they support it, readline echoes a character corre‐
              sponding to a signal generated from the keyboard.
       enable-keypad (Off)
              When  set  to  On, readline will try to enable the application keypad when it is called.  Some systems
              need this to enable the arrow keys.
       enable-meta-key (On)
              When set to On, readline will try to enable any meta modifier key the terminal claims to support  when
              it is called.  On many terminals, the meta key is used to send eight-bit characters.
       expand-tilde (Off)
              If set to On, tilde expansion is performed when readline attempts word completion.
       history-preserve-point (Off)
              If  set  to  On,  the  history  code attempts to place point at the same location on each history line
              retrieved with previous-history or next-history.
       history-size (0)
              Set the maximum number of history entries saved in the history list.  If set  to  zero,  any  existing
              history  entries are deleted and no new entries are saved.  If set to a value less than zero, the num‐
              ber of history entries is not limited.  By default, the number of history entries is not limited.
       horizontal-scroll-mode (Off)
              When set to On, makes readline use a single line for display, scrolling the input  horizontally  on  a
              single screen line when it becomes longer than the screen width rather than wrapping to a new line.
       input-meta (Off)
              If  set  to On, readline will enable eight-bit input (that is, it will not strip the high bit from the
              characters it reads), regardless of what the terminal claims it can support.  The name meta-flag is  a
              synonym for this variable.
       isearch-terminators (``C-[C-J'')
              The  string  of  characters that should terminate an incremental search without subsequently executing
              the character as a command.  If this variable has not been given a value, the characters ESC  and  C-J
              will terminate an incremental search.
       keymap (emacs)
              Set  the current readline keymap.  The set of valid keymap names is emacs, emacs-standard, emacs-meta,
              emacs-ctlx, vi, vi-command, and vi-insert.  vi is equivalent to vi-command;  emacs  is  equivalent  to
              emacs-standard.   The  default  value  is  emacs;  the  value of editing-mode also affects the default
              keymap.
       keyseq-timeout (500)
              Specifies the duration readline will wait for a character when reading an ambiguous key sequence  (one
              that  can  form  a  complete key sequence using the input read so far, or can take additional input to
              complete a longer key sequence).  If no input is received within the timeout, readline  will  use  the
              shorter  but  complete key sequence.  The value is specified in milliseconds, so a value of 1000 means
              that readline will wait one second for additional input.  If this variable is set to a value less than
              or equal to zero, or to a non-numeric value, readline will wait until another key is pressed to decide
              which key sequence to complete.
       mark-directories (On)
              If set to On, completed directory names have a slash appended.
       mark-modified-lines (Off)
              If set to On, history lines that have been modified are displayed with a preceding asterisk (*).
       mark-symlinked-directories (Off)
              If set to On, completed names which are symbolic links to directories have a slash  appended  (subject
              to the value of mark-directories).
       match-hidden-files (On)
              This  variable,  when  set  to On, causes readline to match files whose names begin with a `.' (hidden
              files) when performing filename completion.  If set to Off, the leading `.' must be  supplied  by  the
              user in the filename to be completed.
       menu-complete-display-prefix (Off)
              If  set  to  On, menu completion displays the common prefix of the list of possible completions (which
              may be empty) before cycling through the list.
       output-meta (Off)
              If set to On, readline will display characters with the eighth bit set directly rather than as a meta-
              prefixed escape sequence.
       page-completions (On)
              If set to On, readline uses an internal more-like pager to display a screenful of possible completions
              at a time.
       print-completions-horizontally (Off)
              If set to On, readline will display completions  with  matches  sorted  horizontally  in  alphabetical
              order, rather than down the screen.
       revert-all-at-newline (Off)
              If  set  to  On,  readline will undo all changes to history lines before returning when accept-line is
              executed.  By default, history lines may be modified and retain individual undo lists across calls  to
              readline.
       show-all-if-ambiguous (Off)
              This  alters  the  default  behavior of the completion functions.  If set to On, words which have more
              than one possible completion cause the matches to be listed immediately instead of ringing the bell.
       show-all-if-unmodified (Off)
              This  alters  the  default  behavior  of  the  completion  functions   in   a   fashion   similar   to
              show-all-if-ambiguous.   If  set to On, words which have more than one possible completion without any
              possible partial completion (the possible completions don't share a common prefix) cause  the  matches
              to be listed immediately instead of ringing the bell.
       show-mode-in-prompt (Off)
              If  set  to On, add a character to the beginning of the prompt indicating the editing mode: emacs (@),
              vi command (:) or vi insertion (+).
       skip-completed-text (Off)
              If set to On, this alters the default completion behavior when inserting a single match into the line.
              It's  only  active  when performing completion in the middle of a word.  If enabled, readline does not
              insert characters from the completion that match characters after point in the word  being  completed,
              so portions of the word following the cursor are not duplicated.
       visible-stats (Off)
              If  set  to  On, a character denoting a file's type as reported by stat(2) is appended to the filename
              when listing possible completions.

   Readline Conditional Constructs
       Readline implements a facility similar in spirit to the conditional compilation features of the C  preproces‐
       sor  which  allows key bindings and variable settings to be performed as the result of tests.  There are four
       parser directives used.

       $if    The $if construct allows bindings to be made based on the editing mode, the terminal  being  used,  or
              the  application  using  readline.  The text of the test extends to the end of the line; no characters
              are required to isolate it.

              mode   The mode= form of the $if directive is used to test whether readline is in emacs  or  vi  mode.
                     This  may  be used in conjunction with the set keymap command, for instance, to set bindings in
                     the emacs-standard and emacs-ctlx keymaps only if readline is starting out in emacs mode.

              term   The term= form may be used to include terminal-specific key bindings, perhaps to bind  the  key
                     sequences  output  by  the  terminal's  function  keys.  The word on the right side of the = is
                     tested against the both full name of the terminal and the portion of the terminal  name  before
                     the first -.  This allows sun to match both sun and sun-cmd, for instance.

              application
                     The application construct is used to include application-specific settings.  Each program using
                     the readline library sets the application name, and an initialization file can test for a  par‐
                     ticular  value.   This  could  be used to bind key sequences to functions useful for a specific
                     program.  For instance, the following command adds a key sequence that quotes  the  current  or
                     previous word in bash:

                     $if Bash
                     # Quote the current or previous word
                     "\C-xq": "\eb\"\ef\""
                     $endif

       $endif This command, as seen in the previous example, terminates an $if command.

       $else  Commands in this branch of the $if directive are executed if the test fails.

       $include
              This  directive takes a single filename as an argument and reads commands and bindings from that file.
              For example, the following directive would read /etc/inputrc:

              $include  /etc/inputrc

   Searching
       Readline provides commands for searching through the command history (see HISTORY below) for lines containing
       a specified string.  There are two search modes: incremental and non-incremental.

       Incremental  searches  begin before the user has finished typing the search string.  As each character of the
       search string is typed, readline displays the next entry from the history matching the string typed  so  far.
       An  incremental  search  requires  only  as many characters as needed to find the desired history entry.  The
       characters present in the value of the isearch-terminators variable are  used  to  terminate  an  incremental
       search.  If that variable has not been assigned a value the Escape and Control-J characters will terminate an
       incremental search.  Control-G will abort an incremental search and restore  the  original  line.   When  the
       search is terminated, the history entry containing the search string becomes the current line.

       To  find  other  matching entries in the history list, type Control-S or Control-R as appropriate.  This will
       search backward or forward in the history for the next entry matching the search string typed  so  far.   Any
       other  key  sequence  bound  to  a  readline command will terminate the search and execute that command.  For
       instance, a newline will terminate the search and accept the line, thereby executing  the  command  from  the
       history list.

       Readline  remembers  the last incremental search string.  If two Control-Rs are typed without any intervening
       characters defining a new search string, any remembered search string is used.

       Non-incremental searches read the entire search string before starting to search for matching history  lines.
       The search string may be typed by the user or be part of the contents of the current line.

   Readline Command Names
       The  following  is a list of the names of the commands and the default key sequences to which they are bound.
       Command names without an accompanying key sequence are unbound by default.  In  the  following  descriptions,
       point  refers to the current cursor position, and mark refers to a cursor position saved by the set-mark com‐
       mand.  The text between the point and mark is referred to as the region.

   Commands for Moving
       beginning-of-line (C-a)
              Move to the start of the current line.
       end-of-line (C-e)
              Move to the end of the line.
       forward-char (C-f)
              Move forward a character.
       backward-char (C-b)
              Move back a character.
       forward-word (M-f)
              Move forward to the end of the next word.  Words are composed of alphanumeric characters (letters  and
              digits).
       backward-word (M-b)
              Move back to the start of the current or previous word.  Words are composed of alphanumeric characters
              (letters and digits).
       shell-forward-word
              Move forward to the end of the next word.  Words are delimited by non-quoted shell metacharacters.
       shell-backward-word
              Move back to the start of the current or previous word.   Words  are  delimited  by  non-quoted  shell
              metacharacters.
       clear-screen (C-l)
              Clear  the  screen  leaving  the current line at the top of the screen.  With an argument, refresh the
              current line without clearing the screen.
       redraw-current-line
              Refresh the current line.

   Commands for Manipulating the History
       accept-line (Newline, Return)
              Accept the line regardless of where the cursor is.  If this line is non-empty, add it to  the  history
              list according to the state of the HISTCONTROL variable.  If the line is a modified history line, then
              restore the history line to its original state.
       previous-history (C-p)
              Fetch the previous command from the history list, moving back in the list.
       next-history (C-n)
              Fetch the next command from the history list, moving forward in the list.
       beginning-of-history (M-<)
              Move to the first line in the history.
       end-of-history (M->)
              Move to the end of the input history, i.e., the line currently being entered.
       reverse-search-history (C-r)
              Search backward starting at the current line and moving `up' through the history as  necessary.   This
              is an incremental search.
       forward-search-history (C-s)
              Search  forward starting at the current line and moving `down' through the history as necessary.  This
              is an incremental search.
       non-incremental-reverse-search-history (M-p)
              Search backward through the history starting at the current line using a non-incremental search for  a
              string supplied by the user.
       non-incremental-forward-search-history (M-n)
              Search forward through the history using a non-incremental search for a string supplied by the user.
       history-search-forward
              Search  forward through the history for the string of characters between the start of the current line
              and the point.  This is a non-incremental search.
       history-search-backward
              Search backward through the history for the string of characters between the start of the current line
              and the point.  This is a non-incremental search.
       yank-nth-arg (M-C-y)
              Insert  the  first  argument to the previous command (usually the second word on the previous line) at
              point.  With an argument n, insert the nth word from the previous command (the words in  the  previous
              command  begin  with  word  0).  A negative argument inserts the nth word from the end of the previous
              command.  Once the argument n is computed, the argument is extracted as if the "!n" history  expansion
              had been specified.
       yank-last-arg (M-., M-_)
              Insert  the last argument to the previous command (the last word of the previous history entry).  With
              a numeric argument, behave exactly like yank-nth-arg.  Successive calls  to  yank-last-arg  move  back
              through  the history list, inserting the last word (or the word specified by the argument to the first
              call) of each line in turn.  Any numeric argument supplied to these successive  calls  determines  the
              direction to move through the history.  A negative argument switches the direction through the history
              (back or forward).  The history expansion facilities are used to extract the last word, as if the "!$"
              history expansion had been specified.
       shell-expand-line (M-C-e)
              Expand  the  line  as the shell does.  This performs alias and history expansion as well as all of the
              shell word expansions.  See HISTORY EXPANSION below for a description of history expansion.
       history-expand-line (M-^)
              Perform history expansion on the current line.  See HISTORY EXPANSION below for a description of  his‐
              tory expansion.
       magic-space
              Perform  history  expansion on the current line and insert a space.  See HISTORY EXPANSION below for a
              description of history expansion.
       alias-expand-line
              Perform alias expansion on the current line.  See ALIASES above for a description of alias expansion.
       history-and-alias-expand-line
              Perform history and alias expansion on the current line.
       insert-last-argument (M-., M-_)
              A synonym for yank-last-arg.
       operate-and-get-next (C-o)
              Accept the current line for execution and fetch the next line relative to the current  line  from  the
              history for editing.  Any argument is ignored.
       edit-and-execute-command (C-xC-e)
              Invoke an editor on the current command line, and execute the result as shell commands.  Bash attempts
              to invoke $VISUAL, $EDITOR, and emacs as the editor, in that order.

   Commands for Changing Text
       end-of-file (usually C-d)
              The character indicating end-of-file as set, for example, by ``stty''.  If this character is read when
              there are no characters on the line, and point is at the beginning of the line, Readline interprets it
              as the end of input and returns EOF.
       delete-char (C-d)
              Delete the character at point.  If this function is bound to the same character as the tty EOF charac‐
              ter, as C-d commonly is, see above for the effects.
       backward-delete-char (Rubout)
              Delete  the  character behind the cursor.  When given a numeric argument, save the deleted text on the
              kill ring.
       forward-backward-delete-char
              Delete the character under the cursor, unless the cursor is at the end of the line, in which case  the
              character behind the cursor is deleted.
       quoted-insert (C-q, C-v)
              Add  the  next  character  typed to the line verbatim.  This is how to insert characters like C-q, for
              example.
       tab-insert (C-v TAB)
              Insert a tab character.
       self-insert (a, b, A, 1, !, ...)
              Insert the character typed.
       transpose-chars (C-t)
              Drag the character before point forward over the character at point, moving point forward as well.  If
              point is at the end of the line, then this transposes the two characters before point.  Negative argu‐
              ments have no effect.
       transpose-words (M-t)
              Drag the word before point past the word after point, moving point over that word as well.   If  point
              is at the end of the line, this transposes the last two words on the line.
       upcase-word (M-u)
              Uppercase the current (or following) word.  With a negative argument, uppercase the previous word, but
              do not move point.
       downcase-word (M-l)
              Lowercase the current (or following) word.  With a negative argument, lowercase the previous word, but
              do not move point.
       capitalize-word (M-c)
              Capitalize  the  current (or following) word.  With a negative argument, capitalize the previous word,
              but do not move point.
       overwrite-mode
              Toggle overwrite mode.  With an explicit positive numeric argument, switches to overwrite mode.   With
              an  explicit  non-positive numeric argument, switches to insert mode.  This command affects only emacs
              mode; vi mode does overwrite differently.  Each call to readline() starts in insert  mode.   In  over‐
              write  mode, characters bound to self-insert replace the text at point rather than pushing the text to
              the right.  Characters bound to backward-delete-char replace the character before point with a  space.
              By default, this command is unbound.

   Killing and Yanking
       kill-line (C-k)
              Kill the text from point to the end of the line.
       backward-kill-line (C-x Rubout)
              Kill backward to the beginning of the line.
       unix-line-discard (C-u)
              Kill backward from point to the beginning of the line.  The killed text is saved on the kill-ring.
       kill-whole-line
              Kill all characters on the current line, no matter where point is.
       kill-word (M-d)
              Kill  from  point  to  the  end of the current word, or if between words, to the end of the next word.
              Word boundaries are the same as those used by forward-word.
       backward-kill-word (M-Rubout)
              Kill the word behind point.  Word boundaries are the same as those used by backward-word.
       shell-kill-word (M-d)
              Kill from point to the end of the current word, or if between words, to the  end  of  the  next  word.
              Word boundaries are the same as those used by shell-forward-word.
       shell-backward-kill-word (M-Rubout)
              Kill the word behind point.  Word boundaries are the same as those used by shell-backward-word.
       unix-word-rubout (C-w)
              Kill  the  word  behind  point, using white space as a word boundary.  The killed text is saved on the
              kill-ring.
       unix-filename-rubout
              Kill the word behind point, using white space and the slash character as  the  word  boundaries.   The
              killed text is saved on the kill-ring.
       delete-horizontal-space (M-\)
              Delete all spaces and tabs around point.
       kill-region
              Kill the text in the current region.
       copy-region-as-kill
              Copy the text in the region to the kill buffer.
       copy-backward-word
              Copy the word before point to the kill buffer.  The word boundaries are the same as backward-word.
       copy-forward-word
              Copy the word following point to the kill buffer.  The word boundaries are the same as forward-word.
       yank (C-y)
              Yank the top of the kill ring into the buffer at point.
       yank-pop (M-y)
              Rotate the kill ring, and yank the new top.  Only works following yank or yank-pop.

   Numeric Arguments
       digit-argument (M-0, M-1, ..., M--)
              Add  this  digit to the argument already accumulating, or start a new argument.  M-- starts a negative
              argument.
       universal-argument
              This is another way to specify an argument.  If this command  is  followed  by  one  or  more  digits,
              optionally with a leading minus sign, those digits define the argument.  If the command is followed by
              digits, executing universal-argument again ends the numeric argument, but is otherwise ignored.  As  a
              special  case, if this command is immediately followed by a character that is neither a digit or minus
              sign, the argument count for the next command is multiplied by four.  The argument count is  initially
              one,  so executing this function the first time makes the argument count four, a second time makes the
              argument count sixteen, and so on.

   Completing
       complete (TAB)
              Attempt to perform completion on the text before point.  Bash attempts completion treating the text as
              a  variable  (if  the text begins with $), username (if the text begins with ~), hostname (if the text
              begins with @), or command (including aliases and functions) in turn.  If none  of  these  produces  a
              match, filename completion is attempted.
       possible-completions (M-?)
              List the possible completions of the text before point.
       insert-completions (M-*)
              Insert  all  completions  of  the text before point that would have been generated by possible-comple‐
              tions.
       menu-complete
              Similar to complete, but replaces the word to be completed with a single match from the list of possi‐
              ble  completions.  Repeated execution of menu-complete steps through the list of possible completions,
              inserting each match in turn.  At the end of the list of completions, the bell is rung (subject to the
              setting  of bell-style) and the original text is restored.  An argument of n moves n positions forward
              in the list of matches; a negative argument may be used to move backward through the list.  This  com‐
              mand is intended to be bound to TAB, but is unbound by default.
       menu-complete-backward
              Identical  to  menu-complete,  but  moves  backward  through  the  list of possible completions, as if
              menu-complete had been given a negative argument.  This command is unbound by default.
       delete-char-or-list
              Deletes the character under the cursor if not at the beginning or end of the line (like  delete-char).
              If  at  the  end of the line, behaves identically to possible-completions.  This command is unbound by
              default.
       complete-filename (M-/)
              Attempt filename completion on the text before point.
       possible-filename-completions (C-x /)
              List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it as a filename.
       complete-username (M-~)
              Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a username.
       possible-username-completions (C-x ~)
              List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it as a username.
       complete-variable (M-$)
              Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a shell variable.
       possible-variable-completions (C-x $)
              List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it as a shell variable.
       complete-hostname (M-@)
              Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a hostname.
       possible-hostname-completions (C-x @)
              List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it as a hostname.
       complete-command (M-!)
              Attempt completion on the text before point, treating  it  as  a  command  name.   Command  completion
              attempts  to  match  the  text  against  aliases, reserved words, shell functions, shell builtins, and
              finally executable filenames, in that order.
       possible-command-completions (C-x !)
              List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it as a command name.
       dynamic-complete-history (M-TAB)
              Attempt completion on the text before point, comparing the text against lines from  the  history  list
              for possible completion matches.
       dabbrev-expand
              Attempt  menu  completion  on the text before point, comparing the text against lines from the history
              list for possible completion matches.
       complete-into-braces (M-{)
              Perform filename completion and insert the list of possible completions enclosed within braces so  the
              list is available to the shell (see Brace Expansion above).

   Keyboard Macros
       start-kbd-macro (C-x ()
              Begin saving the characters typed into the current keyboard macro.
       end-kbd-macro (C-x ))
              Stop saving the characters typed into the current keyboard macro and store the definition.
       call-last-kbd-macro (C-x e)
              Re-execute  the  last keyboard macro defined, by making the characters in the macro appear as if typed
              at the keyboard.
       print-last-kbd-macro ()
              Print the last keyboard macro defined in a format suitable for the inputrc file.

   Miscellaneous
       re-read-init-file (C-x C-r)
              Read in the contents of the inputrc file, and incorporate any bindings or variable  assignments  found
              there.
       abort (C-g)
              Abort the current editing command and ring the terminal's bell (subject to the setting of bell-style).
       do-uppercase-version (M-a, M-b, M-x, ...)
              If the metafied character x is lowercase, run the command that is bound to the corresponding uppercase
              character.
       prefix-meta (ESC)
              Metafy the next character typed.  ESC f is equivalent to Meta-f.
       undo (C-_, C-x C-u)
              Incremental undo, separately remembered for each line.
       revert-line (M-r)
              Undo all changes made to this line.  This is like executing the undo command enough  times  to  return
              the line to its initial state.
       tilde-expand (M-&)
              Perform tilde expansion on the current word.
       set-mark (C-@, M-<space>)
              Set the mark to the point.  If a numeric argument is supplied, the mark is set to that position.
       exchange-point-and-mark (C-x C-x)
              Swap  the  point with the mark.  The current cursor position is set to the saved position, and the old
              cursor position is saved as the mark.
       character-search (C-])
              A character is read and point is moved to the next occurrence of that  character.   A  negative  count
              searches for previous occurrences.
       character-search-backward (M-C-])
              A character is read and point is moved to the previous occurrence of that character.  A negative count
              searches for subsequent occurrences.
       skip-csi-sequence
              Read enough characters to consume a multi-key sequence such as those defined for keys  like  Home  and
              End.   Such  sequences begin with a Control Sequence Indicator (CSI), usually ESC-[.  If this sequence
              is bound to "\[", keys producing such sequences will have no effect unless explicitly bound to a read‐
              line  command,  instead  of  inserting  stray  characters into the editing buffer.  This is unbound by
              default, but usually bound to ESC-[.
       insert-comment (M-#)
              Without a numeric argument, the value of the readline comment-begin variable is inserted at the begin‐
              ning  of  the current line.  If a numeric argument is supplied, this command acts as a toggle:  if the
              characters at the beginning of the line do  not  match  the  value  of  comment-begin,  the  value  is
              inserted,  otherwise  the  characters in comment-begin are deleted from the beginning of the line.  In
              either case, the line is accepted as if a newline had been typed.  The default value of  comment-begin
              causes  this  command to make the current line a shell comment.  If a numeric argument causes the com‐
              ment character to be removed, the line will be executed by the shell.
       glob-complete-word (M-g)
              The word before point is treated as a pattern for pathname  expansion,  with  an  asterisk  implicitly
              appended.  This pattern is used to generate a list of matching filenames for possible completions.
       glob-expand-word (C-x *)
              The  word  before point is treated as a pattern for pathname expansion, and the list of matching file‐
              names is inserted, replacing the word.  If a numeric argument is supplied,  an  asterisk  is  appended
              before pathname expansion.
       glob-list-expansions (C-x g)
              The  list  of expansions that would have been generated by glob-expand-word is displayed, and the line
              is redrawn.  If a numeric argument is supplied, an asterisk is appended before pathname expansion.
       dump-functions
              Print all of the functions and their key bindings to the readline output stream.  If a  numeric  argu‐
              ment is supplied, the output is formatted in such a way that it can be made part of an inputrc file.
       dump-variables
              Print  all  of  the  settable readline variables and their values to the readline output stream.  If a
              numeric argument is supplied, the output is formatted in such a way that it can be  made  part  of  an
              inputrc file.
       dump-macros
              Print  all  of  the  readline key sequences bound to macros and the strings they output.  If a numeric
              argument is supplied, the output is formatted in such a way that it can be made  part  of  an  inputrc
              file.
       display-shell-version (C-x C-v)
              Display version information about the current instance of bash.

   Programmable Completion
       When  word completion is attempted for an argument to a command for which a completion specification (a comp‐
       spec) has been defined using the complete builtin (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below), the  programmable  com‐
       pletion facilities are invoked.

       First,  the command name is identified.  If the command word is the empty string (completion attempted at the
       beginning of an empty line), any compspec defined with the -E option to complete is used.  If a compspec  has
       been  defined  for  that  command,  the compspec is used to generate the list of possible completions for the
       word.  If the command word is a full pathname, a compspec for the full pathname is searched for first.  If no
       compspec  is found for the full pathname, an attempt is made to find a compspec for the portion following the
       final slash.  If those searches do not result in a compspec, any compspec defined with the -D option to  com‐
       plete is used as the default.

       Once  a  compspec  has  been  found, it is used to generate the list of matching words.  If a compspec is not
       found, the default bash completion as described above under Completing is performed.

       First, the actions specified by the compspec are used.  Only matches which are prefixed  by  the  word  being
       completed  are  returned.   When  the  -f or -d option is used for filename or directory name completion, the
       shell variable FIGNORE is used to filter the matches.

       Any completions specified by a pathname expansion pattern to the -G option are  generated  next.   The  words
       generated  by the pattern need not match the word being completed.  The GLOBIGNORE shell variable is not used
       to filter the matches, but the FIGNORE variable is used.

       Next, the string specified as the argument to the -W option is considered.  The string is first  split  using
       the  characters  in  the  IFS  special  variable as delimiters.  Shell quoting is honored.  Each word is then
       expanded using brace expansion, tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitution,  and
       arithmetic  expansion,  as  described above under EXPANSION.  The results are split using the rules described
       above under Word Splitting.  The results of the expansion are prefix-matched  against  the  word  being  com‐
       pleted, and the matching words become the possible completions.

       After  these  matches have been generated, any shell function or command specified with the -F and -C options
       is invoked.  When the command or function is invoked, the  COMP_LINE,  COMP_POINT,  COMP_KEY,  and  COMP_TYPE
       variables  are  assigned  values  as  described  above  under  Shell Variables.  If a shell function is being
       invoked, the COMP_WORDS and COMP_CWORD variables are also set.  When the function or command is invoked,  the
       first  argument ($1) is the name of the command whose arguments are being completed, the second argument ($2)
       is the word being completed, and the third argument ($3) is the word preceding the word  being  completed  on
       the current command line.  No filtering of the generated completions against the word being completed is per‐
       formed; the function or command has complete freedom in generating the matches.

       Any function specified with -F is invoked first.  The function may use any of the shell facilities, including
       the  compgen  builtin  described below, to generate the matches.  It must put the possible completions in the
       COMPREPLY array variable, one per array element.

       Next, any command specified with the -C option is invoked in an environment equivalent to  command  substitu‐
       tion.  It should print a list of completions, one per line, to the standard output.  Backslash may be used to
       escape a newline, if necessary.

       After all of the possible completions are generated, any filter specified with the -X option  is  applied  to
       the  list.   The  filter is a pattern as used for pathname expansion; a & in the pattern is replaced with the
       text of the word being completed.  A literal & may be escaped with a  backslash;  the  backslash  is  removed
       before attempting a match.  Any completion that matches the pattern will be removed from the list.  A leading
       ! negates the pattern; in this case any completion not matching the pattern will be removed.

       Finally, any prefix and suffix specified with the -P and -S options are added to each member of  the  comple‐
       tion list, and the result is returned to the readline completion code as the list of possible completions.

       If  the  previously-applied  actions  do not generate any matches, and the -o dirnames option was supplied to
       complete when the compspec was defined, directory name completion is attempted.

       If the -o plusdirs option was supplied to complete when the compspec was defined, directory  name  completion
       is attempted and any matches are added to the results of the other actions.

       By  default, if a compspec is found, whatever it generates is returned to the completion code as the full set
       of possible completions.  The default bash completions are not attempted, and the readline default  of  file‐
       name  completion  is  disabled.   If the -o bashdefault option was supplied to complete when the compspec was
       defined, the bash default completions are attempted if the compspec generates no matches.  If the -o  default
       option  was  supplied  to  complete when the compspec was defined, readline's default completion will be per‐
       formed if the compspec (and, if attempted, the default bash completions) generate no matches.

       When a compspec indicates that directory name completion is desired, the  programmable  completion  functions
       force  readline  to append a slash to completed names which are symbolic links to directories, subject to the
       value of the mark-directories readline variable, regardless of the setting of the  mark-symlinked-directories
       readline variable.

       There  is  some  support for dynamically modifying completions.  This is most useful when used in combination
       with a default completion specified with complete -D.  It's possible for shell functions executed as  comple‐
       tion  handlers  to indicate that completion should be retried by returning an exit status of 124.  If a shell
       function returns 124, and changes the compspec associated with the  command  on  which  completion  is  being
       attempted  (supplied  as  the first argument when the function is executed), programmable completion restarts
       from the beginning, with an attempt to find a new compspec for that command.  This allows a  set  of  comple‐
       tions to be built dynamically as completion is attempted, rather than being loaded all at once.

       For instance, assuming that there is a library of compspecs, each kept in a file corresponding to the name of
       the command, the following default completion function would load completions dynamically:

       _completion_loader()
       {
            . "/etc/bash_completion.d/$1.sh" >/dev/null 2>&1 && return 124
       }
       complete -D -F _completion_loader -o bashdefault -o default


HISTORY
       When the -o history option to the set builtin is enabled, the shell provides access to the  command  history,
       the  list of commands previously typed.  The value of the HISTSIZE variable is used as the number of commands
       to save in a history list.  The text of the last HISTSIZE commands (default 500) is saved.  The shell  stores
       each  command  in  the history list prior to parameter and variable expansion (see EXPANSION above) but after
       history expansion is performed, subject to the values of the shell variables HISTIGNORE and HISTCONTROL.

       On startup, the history is initialized from the file named by the  variable  HISTFILE  (default  ~/.bash_his‐
       tory).   The file named by the value of HISTFILE is truncated, if necessary, to contain no more than the num‐
       ber of lines specified by the value of HISTFILESIZE.  If HISTFILESIZE is unset, or set to null, a non-numeric
       value,  or a numeric value less than zero, the history file is not truncated.  When the history file is read,
       lines beginning with the history comment character followed immediately by a digit are interpreted  as  time‐
       stamps  for  the preceding history line.  These timestamps are optionally displayed depending on the value of
       the HISTTIMEFORMAT variable.  When a shell with history enabled exits, the last $HISTSIZE  lines  are  copied
       from  the history list to $HISTFILE.  If the histappend shell option is enabled (see the description of shopt
       under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below), the lines are appended to the history file, otherwise the  history  file
       is  overwritten.   If  HISTFILE is unset, or if the history file is unwritable, the history is not saved.  If
       the HISTTIMEFORMAT variable is set, time stamps are written to the history file, marked with the history com‐
       ment  character,  so they may be preserved across shell sessions.  This uses the history comment character to
       distinguish timestamps from other history lines.  After saving the history, the history file is truncated  to
       contain no more than HISTFILESIZE lines.  If HISTFILESIZE is unset, or set to null, a non-numeric value, or a
       numeric value less than zero, the history file is not truncated.

       The builtin command fc (see SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below) may be used to list or edit and re-execute  a  por‐
       tion  of the history list.  The history builtin may be used to display or modify the history list and manipu‐
       late the history file.  When using command-line editing, search commands are available in each  editing  mode
       that provide access to the history list.

       The  shell  allows control over which commands are saved on the history list.  The HISTCONTROL and HISTIGNORE
       variables may be set to cause the shell to save only a subset of the commands  entered.   The  cmdhist  shell
       option, if enabled, causes the shell to attempt to save each line of a multi-line command in the same history
       entry, adding semicolons where necessary to preserve syntactic correctness.  The lithist shell option  causes
       the shell to save the command with embedded newlines instead of semicolons.  See the description of the shopt
       builtin below under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS for information on setting and unsetting shell options.

HISTORY EXPANSION
       The shell supports a history expansion feature that is similar to the history expansion in csh.  This section
       describes what syntax features are available.  This feature is enabled by default for interactive shells, and
       can be disabled using the +H option to the set builtin command (see  SHELL  BUILTIN  COMMANDS  below).   Non-
       interactive shells do not perform history expansion by default.

       History expansions introduce words from the history list into the input stream, making it easy to repeat com‐
       mands, insert the arguments to a previous command into the current input line, or fix errors in previous com‐
       mands quickly.

       History  expansion  is  performed  immediately after a complete line is read, before the shell breaks it into
       words.  It takes place in two parts.  The first is to determine which line from the history list to use  dur‐
       ing  substitution.   The  second  is to select portions of that line for inclusion into the current one.  The
       line selected from the history is the event, and the portions of that line that are  acted  upon  are  words.
       Various  modifiers are available to manipulate the selected words.  The line is broken into words in the same
       fashion as when reading input, so that several metacharacter-separated words surrounded by quotes are consid‐
       ered one word.  History expansions are introduced by the appearance of the history expansion character, which
       is ! by default.  Only backslash (\) and single quotes can quote the history expansion character.

       Several characters inhibit history expansion if found immediately following the history expansion  character,
       even if it is unquoted: space, tab, newline, carriage return, and =.  If the extglob shell option is enabled,
       ( will also inhibit expansion.

       Several shell options settable with the shopt builtin may be used to tailor the behavior  of  history  expan‐
       sion.   If the histverify shell option is enabled (see the description of the shopt builtin below), and read‐
       line is being used, history substitutions are not immediately passed  to  the  shell  parser.   Instead,  the
       expanded  line  is  reloaded into the readline editing buffer for further modification.  If readline is being
       used, and the histreedit shell option is enabled, a failed history substitution will  be  reloaded  into  the
       readline editing buffer for correction.  The -p option to the history builtin command may be used to see what
       a history expansion will do before using it.  The -s option to the history builtin may be used  to  add  com‐
       mands  to  the end of the history list without actually executing them, so that they are available for subse‐
       quent recall.

       The shell allows control of the various characters used by the history expansion mechanism (see the  descrip‐
       tion of histchars above under Shell Variables).  The shell uses the history comment character to mark history
       timestamps when writing the history file.

   Event Designators
       An event designator is a reference to a command line entry in the history  list.   Unless  the  reference  is
       absolute, events are relative to the current position in the history list.

       !      Start  a history substitution, except when followed by a blank, newline, carriage return, = or ( (when
              the extglob shell option is enabled using the shopt builtin).
       !n     Refer to command line n.
       !-n    Refer to the current command minus n.
       !!     Refer to the previous command.  This is a synonym for `!-1'.
       !string
              Refer to the most recent command preceding the current position in  the  history  list  starting  with
              string.
       !?string[?]
              Refer to the most recent command preceding the current position in the history list containing string.
              The trailing ? may be omitted if string is followed immediately by a newline.
       ^string1^string2^
              Quick substitution.  Repeat the previous command,  replacing  string1  with  string2.   Equivalent  to
              ``!!:s/string1/string2/'' (see Modifiers below).
       !#     The entire command line typed so far.

   Word Designators
       Word designators are used to select desired words from the event.  A : separates the event specification from
       the word designator.  It may be omitted if the word designator begins with a ^, $, *, -,  or  %.   Words  are
       numbered  from  the beginning of the line, with the first word being denoted by 0 (zero).  Words are inserted
       into the current line separated by single spaces.

       0 (zero)
              The zeroth word.  For the shell, this is the command word.
       n      The nth word.
       ^      The first argument.  That is, word 1.
       $      The last word.  This is usually the last argument, but will expand to the zeroth word if there is only
              one word in the line.
       %      The word matched by the most recent `?string?' search.
       x-y    A range of words; `-y' abbreviates `0-y'.
       *      All  of  the words but the zeroth.  This is a synonym for `1-$'.  It is not an error to use * if there
              is just one word in the event; the empty string is returned in that case.
       x*     Abbreviates x-$.
       x-     Abbreviates x-$ like x*, but omits the last word.

       If a word designator is supplied without an event specification, the previous command is used as the event.

   Modifiers
       After the optional word designator, there may appear a sequence of one or more of  the  following  modifiers,
       each preceded by a `:'.

       h      Remove a trailing filename component, leaving only the head.
       t      Remove all leading filename components, leaving the tail.
       r      Remove a trailing suffix of the form .xxx, leaving the basename.
       e      Remove all but the trailing suffix.
       p      Print the new command but do not execute it.
       q      Quote the substituted words, escaping further substitutions.
       x      Quote the substituted words as with q, but break into words at blanks and newlines.
       s/old/new/
              Substitute  new for the first occurrence of old in the event line.  Any delimiter can be used in place
              of /.  The final delimiter is optional if it is the last character of the event line.   The  delimiter
              may  be quoted in old and new with a single backslash.  If & appears in new, it is replaced by old.  A
              single backslash will quote the &.  If old is null, it is set to the last old substituted, or,  if  no
              previous history substitutions took place, the last string in a !?string[?]  search.
       &      Repeat the previous substitution.
       g      Cause  changes to be applied over the entire event line.  This is used in conjunction with `:s' (e.g.,
              `:gs/old/new/') or `:&'.  If used with `:s', any delimiter can be used in place of /,  and  the  final
              delimiter  is  optional  if it is the last character of the event line.  An a may be used as a synonym
              for g.
       G      Apply the following `s' modifier once to each word in the event line.

SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS
       Unless otherwise noted, each builtin command documented in this section as accepting options  preceded  by  -
       accepts  --  to  signify the end of the options.  The :, true, false, and test builtins do not accept options
       and do not treat -- specially.  The exit, logout, break, continue, let, and shift builtins accept and process
       arguments  beginning with - without requiring --.  Other builtins that accept arguments but are not specified
       as accepting options interpret arguments beginning with - as invalid options and require -- to  prevent  this
       interpretation.
       : [arguments]
              No  effect;  the command does nothing beyond expanding arguments and performing any specified redirec‐
              tions.  A zero exit code is returned.

        .  filename [arguments]
       source filename [arguments]
              Read and execute commands from filename in the current shell environment and return the exit status of
              the  last command executed from filename.  If filename does not contain a slash, filenames in PATH are
              used to find the directory containing filename.  The file searched for in PATH need not be executable.
              When bash is not in posix mode, the current directory is searched if no file is found in PATH.  If the
              sourcepath option to the shopt builtin command is turned off, the PATH is not searched.  If any  argu‐
              ments  are  supplied,  they become the positional parameters when filename is executed.  Otherwise the
              positional parameters are unchanged.  The return status is the  status  of  the  last  command  exited
              within  the  script  (0  if no commands are executed), and false if filename is not found or cannot be
              read.

       alias [-p] [name[=value] ...]
              Alias with no arguments or with the -p option prints the list of aliases in the form alias  name=value
              on  standard  output.   When  arguments are supplied, an alias is defined for each name whose value is
              given.  A trailing space in  value causes the next word to be checked for alias substitution when  the
              alias  is  expanded.   For each name in the argument list for which no value is supplied, the name and
              value of the alias is printed.  Alias returns true unless a name is given for which no alias has  been
              defined.

       bg [jobspec ...]
              Resume  each suspended job jobspec in the background, as if it had been started with &.  If jobspec is
              not present, the shell's notion of the current job is used.  bg jobspec returns 0 unless run when  job
              control  is disabled or, when run with job control enabled, any specified jobspec was not found or was
              started without job control.

       bind [-m keymap] [-lpsvPSVX]
       bind [-m keymap] [-q function] [-u function] [-r keyseq]
       bind [-m keymap] -f filename
       bind [-m keymap] -x keyseq:shell-command
       bind [-m keymap] keyseq:function-name
       bind readline-command
              Display current readline key and function bindings, bind a key sequence  to  a  readline  function  or
              macro, or set a readline variable.  Each non-option argument is a command as it would appear in .inpu‐
              trc, but each  binding  or  command  must  be  passed  as  a  separate  argument;  e.g.,  '"\C-x\C-r":
              re-read-init-file'.  Options, if supplied, have the following meanings:
              -m keymap
                     Use  keymap  as  the keymap to be affected by the subsequent bindings.  Acceptable keymap names
                     are emacs, emacs-standard, emacs-meta, emacs-ctlx, vi, vi-move, vi-command, and vi-insert.   vi
                     is equivalent to vi-command; emacs is equivalent to emacs-standard.
              -l     List the names of all readline functions.
              -p     Display readline function names and bindings in such a way that they can be re-read.
              -P     List current readline function names and bindings.
              -s     Display  readline  key sequences bound to macros and the strings they output in such a way that
                     they can be re-read.
              -S     Display readline key sequences bound to macros and the strings they output.
              -v     Display readline variable names and values in such a way that they can be re-read.
              -V     List current readline variable names and values.
              -f filename
                     Read key bindings from filename.
              -q function
                     Query about which keys invoke the named function.
              -u function
                     Unbind all keys bound to the named function.
              -r keyseq
                     Remove any current binding for keyseq.
              -x keyseq:shell-command
                     Cause shell-command to be executed whenever keyseq is entered.  When shell-command is executed,
                     the  shell  sets the READLINE_LINE variable to the contents of the readline line buffer and the
                     READLINE_POINT variable to the current location of the insertion point.  If the  executed  com‐
                     mand  changes  the value of READLINE_LINE or READLINE_POINT, those new values will be reflected
                     in the editing state.
              -X     List all key sequences bound to shell commands and the associated commands in a format that can
                     be reused as input.

              The return value is 0 unless an unrecognized option is given or an error occurred.

       break [n]
              Exit from within a for, while, until, or select loop.  If n is specified, break n levels.  n must be ≥
              1.  If n is greater than the number of enclosing loops, all enclosing loops are  exited.   The  return
              value is 0 unless n is not greater than or equal to 1.

       builtin shell-builtin [arguments]
              Execute the specified shell builtin, passing it arguments, and return its exit status.  This is useful
              when defining a function whose name is the same as a shell builtin, retaining the functionality of the
              builtin  within  the  function.   The cd builtin is commonly redefined this way.  The return status is
              false if shell-builtin is not a shell builtin command.

       caller [expr]
              Returns the context of any active subroutine call (a shell function or a script executed with the . or
              source  builtins).   Without  expr, caller displays the line number and source filename of the current
              subroutine call.  If a non-negative integer is supplied as expr, caller displays the line number, sub‐
              routine  name,  and  source  file  corresponding to that position in the current execution call stack.
              This extra information may be used, for example, to print a stack trace.  The current frame  is  frame
              0.   The return value is 0 unless the shell is not executing a subroutine call or expr does not corre‐
              spond to a valid position in the call stack.

       cd [-L|[-P [-e]] [-@]] [dir]
              Change the current directory to dir.  if dir is not supplied, the value of the HOME shell variable  is
              the  default.   Any  additional  arguments following dir are ignored.  The variable CDPATH defines the
              search path for the directory containing dir: each directory name  in  CDPATH  is  searched  for  dir.
              Alternative  directory  names in CDPATH are separated by a colon (:).  A null directory name in CDPATH
              is the same as the current directory, i.e., ``.''.  If dir begins with a slash (/), then CDPATH is not
              used.  The  -P  option  causes  cd to use the physical directory structure by resolving symbolic links
              while traversing dir and before processing instances of .. in dir (see also the -P option to  the  set
              builtin  command); the -L option forces symbolic links to be followed by resolving the link after pro‐
              cessing instances of .. in dir.  If .. appears in dir, it is processed  by  removing  the  immediately
              previous  pathname  component  from dir, back to a slash or the beginning of dir.  If the -e option is
              supplied with -P, and the current working directory cannot be successfully determined after a success‐
              ful  directory  change,  cd  will  return  an unsuccessful status.  On systems that support it, the -@
              option presents the extended attributes associated with a file as a directory.  An argument  of  -  is
              converted  to  $OLDPWD  before  the directory change is attempted.  If a non-empty directory name from
              CDPATH is used, or if - is the first argument, and the directory change is  successful,  the  absolute
              pathname  of the new working directory is written to the standard output.  The return value is true if
              the directory was successfully changed; false otherwise.

       command [-pVv] command [arg ...]
              Run command with args suppressing the normal shell function lookup. Only builtin commands or  commands
              found  in the PATH are executed.  If the -p option is given, the search for command is performed using
              a default value for PATH that is guaranteed to find all of the standard utilities.  If either  the  -V
              or  -v  option  is  supplied, a description of command is printed.  The -v option causes a single word
              indicating the command or filename used to invoke command to be displayed; the -V  option  produces  a
              more  verbose  description.   If  the -V or -v option is supplied, the exit status is 0 if command was
              found, and 1 if not.  If neither option is supplied and an error occurred or command cannot be  found,
              the  exit status is 127.  Otherwise, the exit status of the command builtin is the exit status of com‐
              mand.

       compgen [option] [word]
              Generate possible completion matches for word according to  the  options,  which  may  be  any  option
              accepted  by  the complete builtin with the exception of -p and -r, and write the matches to the stan‐
              dard output.  When using the -F or -C options, the various shell variables  set  by  the  programmable
              completion facilities, while available, will not have useful values.

              The  matches  will  be  generated in the same way as if the programmable completion code had generated
              them directly from a completion specification with the same flags.  If word is specified,  only  those
              completions matching word will be displayed.

              The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, or no matches were generated.

       complete [-abcdefgjksuv] [-o comp-option] [-DE] [-A action] [-G globpat] [-W wordlist] [-F function] [-C com‐
       mand]
              [-X filterpat] [-P prefix] [-S suffix] name [name ...]
       complete -pr [-DE] [name ...]
              Specify how arguments to each name should be completed.  If the  -p  option  is  supplied,  or  if  no
              options  are  supplied, existing completion specifications are printed in a way that allows them to be
              reused as input.  The -r option removes a completion specification for each name, or, if no names  are
              supplied,  all  completion  specifications.   The  -D  option indicates that the remaining options and
              actions should apply to the ``default'' command completion; that is, completion attempted on a command
              for  which  no  completion  has  previously  been defined.  The -E option indicates that the remaining
              options and actions should apply to ``empty'' command completion; that is, completion attempted  on  a
              blank line.

              The process of applying these completion specifications when word completion is attempted is described
              above under Programmable Completion.

              Other options, if specified, have the following meanings.  The arguments to the -G, -W, and -X options
              (and,  if necessary, the -P and -S options) should be quoted to protect them from expansion before the
              complete builtin is invoked.
              -o comp-option
                      The comp-option controls several aspects of the compspec's behavior beyond the simple  genera‐
                      tion of completions.  comp-option may be one of:
                      bashdefault
                              Perform the rest of the default bash completions if the compspec generates no matches.
                      default Use readline's default filename completion if the compspec generates no matches.
                      dirnames
                              Perform directory name completion if the compspec generates no matches.
                      filenames
                              Tell  readline  that  the  compspec  generates  filenames, so it can perform any file‐
                              name-specific processing (like adding a slash  to  directory  names,  quoting  special
                              characters,  or  suppressing  trailing  spaces).  Intended to be used with shell func‐
                              tions.
                      noquote Tell readline not to quote the completed words if they are  filenames  (quoting  file‐
                              names is the default).
                      nospace Tell readline not to append a space (the default) to words completed at the end of the
                              line.
                      plusdirs
                              After any matches defined by the compspec are generated, directory name completion  is
                              attempted and any matches are added to the results of the other actions.
              -A action
                      The action may be one of the following to generate a list of possible completions:
                      alias   Alias names.  May also be specified as -a.
                      arrayvar
                              Array variable names.
                      binding Readline key binding names.
                      builtin Names of shell builtin commands.  May also be specified as -b.
                      command Command names.  May also be specified as -c.
                      directory
                              Directory names.  May also be specified as -d.
                      disabled
                              Names of disabled shell builtins.
                      enabled Names of enabled shell builtins.
                      export  Names of exported shell variables.  May also be specified as -e.
                      file    File names.  May also be specified as -f.
                      function
                              Names of shell functions.
                      group   Group names.  May also be specified as -g.
                      helptopic
                              Help topics as accepted by the help builtin.
                      hostname
                              Hostnames, as taken from the file specified by the HOSTFILE shell variable.
                      job     Job names, if job control is active.  May also be specified as -j.
                      keyword Shell reserved words.  May also be specified as -k.
                      running Names of running jobs, if job control is active.
                      service Service names.  May also be specified as -s.
                      setopt  Valid arguments for the -o option to the set builtin.
                      shopt   Shell option names as accepted by the shopt builtin.
                      signal  Signal names.
                      stopped Names of stopped jobs, if job control is active.
                      user    User names.  May also be specified as -u.
                      variable
                              Names of all shell variables.  May also be specified as -v.
              -C command
                      command  is executed in a subshell environment, and its output is used as the possible comple‐
                      tions.
              -F function
                      The shell function function is executed in the current shell environment.  When  the  function
                      is executed, the first argument ($1) is the name of the command whose arguments are being com‐
                      pleted, the second argument ($2) is the word being completed, and the third argument  ($3)  is
                      the  word  preceding  the word being completed on the current command line.  When it finishes,
                      the possible completions are retrieved from the value of the COMPREPLY array variable.
              -G globpat
                      The pathname expansion pattern globpat is expanded to generate the possible completions.
              -P prefix
                      prefix is added at the beginning of each possible completion after all other options have been
                      applied.
              -S suffix
                      suffix is appended to each possible completion after all other options have been applied.
              -W wordlist
                      The wordlist is split using the characters in the IFS special variable as delimiters, and each
                      resultant word is expanded.  The possible completions are the members of  the  resultant  list
                      which match the word being completed.
              -X filterpat
                      filterpat  is a pattern as used for pathname expansion.  It is applied to the list of possible
                      completions generated by the preceding options and arguments,  and  each  completion  matching
                      filterpat  is  removed  from  the list.  A leading ! in filterpat negates the pattern; in this
                      case, any completion not matching filterpat is removed.

              The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, an option other than -p or -r  is  sup‐
              plied  without a name argument, an attempt is made to remove a completion specification for a name for
              which no specification exists, or an error occurs adding a completion specification.

       compopt [-o option] [-DE] [+o option] [name]
              Modify completion options for each name according to the options, or for the currently-executing  com‐
              pletion  if  no  names are supplied.  If no options are given, display the completion options for each
              name or the current completion.  The possible values of  option  are  those  valid  for  the  complete
              builtin  described  above.   The  -D  option  indicates that the remaining options should apply to the
              ``default'' command completion; that is, completion attempted on a command for which no completion has
              previously been defined.  The -E option indicates that the remaining options should apply to ``empty''
              command completion; that is, completion attempted on a blank line.

              The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied,  an  attempt  is  made  to  modify  the
              options for a name for which no completion specification exists, or an output error occurs.

       continue [n]
              Resume  the  next  iteration  of  the enclosing for, while, until, or select loop.  If n is specified,
              resume at the nth enclosing loop.  n must be ≥ 1.  If n is greater than the number of enclosing loops,
              the  last  enclosing  loop (the ``top-level'' loop) is resumed.  The return value is 0 unless n is not
              greater than or equal to 1.

       declare [-aAfFgilnrtux] [-p] [name[=value] ...]
       typeset [-aAfFgilnrtux] [-p] [name[=value] ...]
              Declare variables and/or give them attributes.  If no names are given then display the values of vari‐
              ables.   The -p option will display the attributes and values of each name.  When -p is used with name
              arguments, additional options, other than -f and -F, are ignored.  When -p is  supplied  without  name
              arguments,  it will display the attributes and values of all variables having the attributes specified
              by the additional options.  If no other options  are  supplied  with  -p,  declare  will  display  the
              attributes  and values of all shell variables.  The -f option will restrict the display to shell func‐
              tions.  The -F option inhibits the display  of  function  definitions;  only  the  function  name  and
              attributes are printed.  If the extdebug shell option is enabled using shopt, the source file name and
              line number where the function is defined are displayed as well.  The -F option implies  -f.   The  -g
              option  forces  variables to be created or modified at the global scope, even when declare is executed
              in a shell function.  It is ignored in all other cases.  The following options can be used to restrict
              output to variables with the specified attribute or to give variables attributes:
              -a     Each name is an indexed array variable (see Arrays above).
              -A     Each name is an associative array variable (see Arrays above).
              -f     Use function names only.
              -i     The  variable is treated as an integer; arithmetic evaluation (see ARITHMETIC EVALUATION above)
                     is performed when the variable is assigned a value.
              -l     When the variable is assigned a value, all upper-case characters are converted  to  lower-case.
                     The upper-case attribute is disabled.
              -n     Give  each  name  the  nameref attribute, making it a name reference to another variable.  That
                     other variable is defined by the value of name.  All references and assignments to name, except
                     for changing the -n attribute itself, are performed on the variable referenced by name's value.
                     The -n attribute cannot be applied to array variables.
              -r     Make names readonly.  These names cannot then  be  assigned  values  by  subsequent  assignment
                     statements or unset.
              -t     Give  each  name the trace attribute.  Traced functions inherit the DEBUG and RETURN traps from
                     the calling shell.  The trace attribute has no special meaning for variables.
              -u     When the variable is assigned a value, all lower-case characters are converted  to  upper-case.
                     The lower-case attribute is disabled.
              -x     Mark names for export to subsequent commands via the environment.

              Using  `+' instead of `-' turns off the attribute instead, with the exceptions that +a may not be used
              to destroy an array variable and +r will not remove the readonly attribute.  When used in a  function,
              declare and typeset make each name local, as with the local command, unless the -g option is supplied.
              If a variable name is followed by =value, the value of the variable is set to value.  When using -a or
              -A  and  the  compound  assignment syntax to create array variables, additional attributes do not take
              effect until subsequent assignments.  The return value is 0 unless an invalid option  is  encountered,
              an  attempt is made to define a function using ``-f foo=bar'', an attempt is made to assign a value to
              a readonly variable, an attempt is made to assign a value to an array variable without using the  com‐
              pound  assignment  syntax  (see Arrays above), one of the names is not a valid shell variable name, an
              attempt is made to turn off readonly status for a readonly variable, an attempt is made  to  turn  off
              array status for an array variable, or an attempt is made to display a non-existent function with -f.

       dirs [-clpv] [+n] [-n]
              Without  options,  displays the list of currently remembered directories.  The default display is on a
              single line with directory names separated by spaces.  Directories are added  to  the  list  with  the
              pushd command; the popd command removes entries from the list.
              -c     Clears the directory stack by deleting all of the entries.
              -l     Produces  a listing using full pathnames; the default listing format uses a tilde to denote the
                     home directory.
              -p     Print the directory stack with one entry per line.
              -v     Print the directory stack with one entry per line, prefixing each entry with its index  in  the
                     stack.
              +n     Displays  the  nth  entry counting from the left of the list shown by dirs when invoked without
                     options, starting with zero.
              -n     Displays the nth entry counting from the right of the list shown by dirs when  invoked  without
                     options, starting with zero.

              The  return  value is 0 unless an invalid option is supplied or n indexes beyond the end of the direc‐
              tory stack.

       disown [-ar] [-h] [jobspec ...]
              Without options, remove each jobspec from the table of active jobs.  If jobspec is  not  present,  and
              neither  the  -a  nor  the -r option is supplied, the current job is used.  If the -h option is given,
              each jobspec is not removed from the table, but is marked so that SIGHUP is not sent to the job if the
              shell  receives  a SIGHUP.  If no jobspec is supplied, the -a option means to remove or mark all jobs;
              the -r option without a jobspec argument restricts operation to running jobs.  The return value  is  0
              unless a jobspec does not specify a valid job.

       echo [-neE] [arg ...]
              Output  the  args,  separated by spaces, followed by a newline.  The return status is 0 unless a write
              error occurs.  If -n is specified, the trailing newline is suppressed.  If the  -e  option  is  given,
              interpretation  of  the following backslash-escaped characters is enabled.  The -E option disables the
              interpretation of these escape characters, even on systems where they are interpreted by default.  The
              xpg_echo  shell  option  may be used to dynamically determine whether or not echo expands these escape
              characters by default.  echo does not interpret -- to mean the end of options.   echo  interprets  the
              following escape sequences:
              \a     alert (bell)
              \b     backspace
              \c     suppress further output
              \e
              \E     an escape character
              \f     form feed
              \n     new line
              \r     carriage return
              \t     horizontal tab
              \v     vertical tab
              \\     backslash
              \0nnn  the eight-bit character whose value is the octal value nnn (zero to three octal digits)
              \xHH   the eight-bit character whose value is the hexadecimal value HH (one or two hex digits)
              \uHHHH the  Unicode  (ISO/IEC  10646) character whose value is the hexadecimal value HHHH (one to four
                     hex digits)
              \UHHHHHHHH
                     the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the hexadecimal  value  HHHHHHHH  (one  to
                     eight hex digits)

       enable [-a] [-dnps] [-f filename] [name ...]
              Enable  and  disable  builtin shell commands.  Disabling a builtin allows a disk command which has the
              same name as a shell builtin to be executed without specifying a full pathname, even though the  shell
              normally searches for builtins before disk commands.  If -n is used, each name is disabled; otherwise,
              names are enabled.  For example, to use the test binary found  via  the  PATH  instead  of  the  shell
              builtin  version,  run  ``enable  -n test''.  The -f option means to load the new builtin command name
              from shared object filename, on systems that support dynamic loading.  The -d  option  will  delete  a
              builtin previously loaded with -f.  If no name arguments are given, or if the -p option is supplied, a
              list of shell builtins is printed.  With no other option arguments, the list consists of  all  enabled
              shell  builtins.   If -n is supplied, only disabled builtins are printed.  If -a is supplied, the list
              printed includes all builtins, with an indication of whether or not each is enabled.  If  -s  is  sup‐
              plied, the output is restricted to the POSIX special builtins.  The return value is 0 unless a name is
              not a shell builtin or there is an error loading a new builtin from a shared object.

       eval [arg ...]
              The args are read and concatenated together into a single command.  This command is then read and exe‐
              cuted  by  the  shell, and its exit status is returned as the value of eval.  If there are no args, or
              only null arguments, eval returns 0.

       exec [-cl] [-a name] [command [arguments]]
              If command is specified, it replaces the shell.  No new process is created.  The arguments become  the
              arguments  to  command.  If the -l option is supplied, the shell places a dash at the beginning of the
              zeroth argument passed to command.  This is what login(1) does.  The -c option causes  command  to  be
              executed  with  an empty environment.  If -a is supplied, the shell passes name as the zeroth argument
              to the executed command.  If command cannot be executed  for  some  reason,  a  non-interactive  shell
              exits, unless the execfail shell option is enabled.  In that case, it returns failure.  An interactive
              shell returns failure if the file cannot be executed.  If command is not specified,  any  redirections
              take  effect  in  the current shell, and the return status is 0.  If there is a redirection error, the
              return status is 1.

       exit [n]
              Cause the shell to exit with a status of n.  If n is omitted, the exit status is that of the last com‐
              mand executed.  A trap on EXIT is executed before the shell terminates.

       export [-fn] [name[=word]] ...
       export -p
              The  supplied  names  are marked for automatic export to the environment of subsequently executed com‐
              mands.  If the -f option is given, the names refer to functions.  If no names are given, or if the  -p
              option  is  supplied,  a list of names of all exported variables is printed.  The -n option causes the
              export property to be removed from each name.  If a variable name is followed by =word, the  value  of
              the  variable  is set to word.  export returns an exit status of 0 unless an invalid option is encoun‐
              tered, one of the names is not a valid shell variable name, or -f is supplied with a name that is  not
              a function.

       fc [-e ename] [-lnr] [first] [last]
       fc -s [pat=rep] [cmd]
              The  first  form  selects a range of commands from first to last from the history list and displays or
              edits and re-executes them.  First and last may be specified as a string (to locate the  last  command
              beginning with that string) or as a number (an index into the history list, where a negative number is
              used as an offset from the current command number).  If last is not specified it is set to the current
              command  for  listing  (so that ``fc -l -10'' prints the last 10 commands) and to first otherwise.  If
              first is not specified it is set to the previous command for editing and -16 for listing.

              The -n option suppresses the command numbers when listing.  The -r option reverses the  order  of  the
              commands.  If the -l option is given, the commands are listed on standard output.  Otherwise, the edi‐
              tor given by ename is invoked on a file containing those commands.  If ename is not given,  the  value
              of  the FCEDIT variable is used, and the value of EDITOR if FCEDIT is not set.  If neither variable is
              set, vi is used.  When editing is complete, the edited commands are echoed and executed.

              In the second form, command is re-executed after each instance of pat is replaced by rep.  Command  is
              intepreted  the same as first above.  A useful alias to use with this is ``r="fc -s"'', so that typing
              ``r cc'' runs the last command beginning with ``cc'' and typing ``r'' re-executes the last command.

              If the first form is used, the return value is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered or  first  or
              last  specify history lines out of range.  If the -e option is supplied, the return value is the value
              of the last command executed or failure if an error occurs with the temporary file  of  commands.   If
              the  second  form  is  used, the return status is that of the command re-executed, unless cmd does not
              specify a valid history line, in which case fc returns failure.

       fg [jobspec]
              Resume jobspec in the foreground, and make it the current job.  If jobspec is not present, the shell's
              notion  of  the  current  job  is used.  The return value is that of the command placed into the fore‐
              ground, or failure if run when job control is disabled or, when run with job control enabled, if  job‐
              spec does not specify a valid job or jobspec specifies a job that was started without job control.

       getopts optstring name [args]
              getopts  is  used  by  shell procedures to parse positional parameters.  optstring contains the option
              characters to be recognized; if a character is followed by a colon, the option is expected to have  an
              argument,  which  should  be separated from it by white space.  The colon and question mark characters
              may not be used as option characters.  Each time it is invoked, getopts places the next option in  the
              shell  variable name, initializing name if it does not exist, and the index of the next argument to be
              processed into the variable OPTIND.  OPTIND is initialized to 1 each time the shell or a shell  script
              is  invoked.   When  an  option  requires  an argument, getopts places that argument into the variable
              OPTARG.  The shell does not reset OPTIND automatically; it must be  manually  reset  between  multiple
              calls to getopts within the same shell invocation if a new set of parameters is to be used.

              When  the  end of options is encountered, getopts exits with a return value greater than zero.  OPTIND
              is set to the index of the first non-option argument, and name is set to ?.

              getopts normally parses the positional parameters, but if more arguments are given  in  args,  getopts
              parses those instead.

              getopts  can  report errors in two ways.  If the first character of optstring is a colon, silent error
              reporting is used.  In normal operation, diagnostic messages are printed when invalid options or miss‐
              ing  option  arguments are encountered.  If the variable OPTERR is set to 0, no error messages will be
              displayed, even if the first character of optstring is not a colon.

              If an invalid option is seen, getopts places ? into name and, if not silent, prints an  error  message
              and  unsets OPTARG.  If getopts is silent, the option character found is placed in OPTARG and no diag‐
              nostic message is printed.

              If a required argument is not found, and getopts is not silent, a question mark (?) is placed in name,
              OPTARG  is  unset,  and  a  diagnostic  message is printed.  If getopts is silent, then a colon (:) is
              placed in name and OPTARG is set to the option character found.

              getopts returns true if an option, specified or unspecified, is found.  It returns false if the end of
              options is encountered or an error occurs.

       hash [-lr] [-p filename] [-dt] [name]
              Each time hash is invoked, the full pathname of the command name is determined by searching the direc‐
              tories in $PATH and remembered.  Any previously-remembered pathname is discarded.  If the -p option is
              supplied,  no path search is performed, and filename is used as the full filename of the command.  The
              -r option causes the shell to forget all remembered locations.  The -d option causes the shell to for‐
              get  the  remembered  location of each name.  If the -t option is supplied, the full pathname to which
              each name corresponds is printed.  If multiple name arguments  are  supplied  with  -t,  the  name  is
              printed before the hashed full pathname.  The -l option causes output to be displayed in a format that
              may be reused as input.  If no arguments are given, or if  only  -l  is  supplied,  information  about
              remembered  commands  is  printed.  The return status is true unless a name is not found or an invalid
              option is supplied.

       help [-dms] [pattern]
              Display helpful information about builtin commands.  If pattern is specified, help gives detailed help
              on  all commands matching pattern; otherwise help for all the builtins and shell control structures is
              printed.
              -d     Display a short description of each pattern
              -m     Display the description of each pattern in a manpage-like format
              -s     Display only a short usage synopsis for each pattern

              The return status is 0 unless no command matches pattern.

       history [n]
       history -c
       history -d offset
       history -anrw [filename]
       history -p arg [arg ...]
       history -s arg [arg ...]
              With no options, display the command history list with line numbers.  Lines listed with a * have  been
              modified.   An argument of n lists only the last n lines.  If the shell variable HISTTIMEFORMAT is set
              and not null, it is used as a format string for strftime(3) to display the time stamp associated  with
              each  displayed  history  entry.  No intervening blank is printed between the formatted time stamp and
              the history line.  If filename is supplied, it is used as the name of the history file;  if  not,  the
              value of HISTFILE is used.  Options, if supplied, have the following meanings:
              -c     Clear the history list by deleting all the entries.
              -d offset
                     Delete the history entry at position offset.
              -a     Append the ``new'' history lines (history lines entered since the beginning of the current bash
                     session) to the history file.
              -n     Read the history lines not already read from the history file into the  current  history  list.
                     These are lines appended to the history file since the beginning of the current bash session.
              -r     Read the contents of the history file and append them to the current history list.
              -w     Write the current history list to the history file, overwriting the history file's contents.
              -p     Perform  history substitution on the following args and display the result on the standard out‐
                     put.  Does not store the results in the history list.  Each arg must be quoted to disable  nor‐
                     mal history expansion.
              -s     Store  the args in the history list as a single entry.  The last command in the history list is
                     removed before the args are added.

              If the HISTTIMEFORMAT variable is set, the time stamp information associated with each  history  entry
              is  written  to the history file, marked with the history comment character.  When the history file is
              read, lines beginning with the history comment character followed immediately by a  digit  are  inter‐
              preted as timestamps for the previous history line.  The return value is 0 unless an invalid option is
              encountered, an error occurs while reading or writing the history file, an invalid offset is  supplied
              as an argument to -d, or the history expansion supplied as an argument to -p fails.

       jobs [-lnprs] [ jobspec ... ]
       jobs -x command [ args ... ]
              The first form lists the active jobs.  The options have the following meanings:
              -l     List process IDs in addition to the normal information.
              -n     Display  information  only about jobs that have changed status since the user was last notified
                     of their status.
              -p     List only the process ID of the job's process group leader.
              -r     Display only running jobs.
              -s     Display only stopped jobs.

              If jobspec is given, output is restricted to information about that  job.   The  return  status  is  0
              unless an invalid option is encountered or an invalid jobspec is supplied.

              If  the -x option is supplied, jobs replaces any jobspec found in command or args with the correspond‐
              ing process group ID, and executes command passing it args, returning its exit status.

       kill [-s sigspec | -n signum | -sigspec] [pid | jobspec] ...
       kill -l [sigspec | exit_status]
              Send the signal named by sigspec or signum to the processes named  by  pid  or  jobspec.   sigspec  is
              either  a  case-insensitive  signal  name such as SIGKILL (with or without the SIG prefix) or a signal
              number; signum is a signal number.  If sigspec is not present, then SIGTERM is assumed.   An  argument
              of  -l  lists the signal names.  If any arguments are supplied when -l is given, the names of the sig‐
              nals corresponding to the arguments are listed, and the return status is 0.  The exit_status  argument
              to  -l  is  a number specifying either a signal number or the exit status of a process terminated by a
              signal.  kill returns true if at least one signal was successfully sent, or false if an  error  occurs
              or an invalid option is encountered.

       let arg [arg ...]
              Each  arg  is an arithmetic expression to be evaluated (see ARITHMETIC EVALUATION above).  If the last
              arg evaluates to 0, let returns 1; 0 is returned otherwise.

       local [option] [name[=value] ...]
              For each argument, a local variable named name is created, and assigned value.  The option can be  any
              of the options accepted by declare.  When local is used within a function, it causes the variable name
              to have a visible scope restricted to that function and its children.  With no operands, local  writes
              a list of local variables to the standard output.  It is an error to use local when not within a func‐
              tion.  The return status is 0 unless local is used outside a function, an invalid name is supplied, or
              name is a readonly variable.

       logout Exit a login shell.

       mapfile [-n count] [-O origin] [-s count] [-t] [-u fd] [-C callback] [-c quantum] [array]
       readarray [-n count] [-O origin] [-s count] [-t] [-u fd] [-C callback] [-c quantum] [array]
              Read  lines  from the standard input into the indexed array variable array, or from file descriptor fd
              if the -u option is supplied.  The variable MAPFILE is the default array.  Options, if supplied,  have
              the following meanings:
              -n     Copy at most count lines.  If count is 0, all lines are copied.
              -O     Begin assigning to array at index origin.  The default index is 0.
              -s     Discard the first count lines read.
              -t     Remove a trailing newline from each line read.
              -u     Read lines from file descriptor fd instead of the standard input.
              -C     Evaluate callback each time quantum lines are read.  The -c option specifies quantum.
              -c     Specify the number of lines read between each call to callback.

              If  -C  is  specified without -c, the default quantum is 5000.  When callback is evaluated, it is sup‐
              plied the index of the next array element to be assigned and the line to be assigned to  that  element
              as additional arguments.  callback is evaluated after the line is read but before the array element is
              assigned.

              If not supplied with an explicit origin, mapfile will clear array before assigning to it.

              mapfile returns successfully unless an invalid option or option argument is supplied, array is invalid
              or unassignable, or if array is not an indexed array.

       popd [-n] [+n] [-n]
              Removes  entries  from  the  directory  stack.   With no arguments, removes the top directory from the
              stack, and performs a cd to the new top directory.  Arguments, if supplied, have the  following  mean‐
              ings:
              -n     Suppresses  the  normal  change  of directory when removing directories from the stack, so that
                     only the stack is manipulated.
              +n     Removes the nth entry counting from the left of the list shown by  dirs,  starting  with  zero.
                     For example: ``popd +0'' removes the first directory, ``popd +1'' the second.
              -n     Removes  the  nth  entry counting from the right of the list shown by dirs, starting with zero.
                     For example: ``popd -0'' removes the last directory, ``popd -1'' the next to last.

              If the popd command is successful, a dirs is performed as well, and the  return  status  is  0.   popd
              returns false if an invalid option is encountered, the directory stack is empty, a non-existent direc‐
              tory stack entry is specified, or the directory change fails.

       printf [-v var] format [arguments]
              Write the formatted arguments to the standard output under the control of the format.  The  -v  option
              causes the output to be assigned to the variable var rather than being printed to the standard output.

              The  format  is  a character string which contains three types of objects: plain characters, which are
              simply copied to standard output, character escape sequences, which are converted and  copied  to  the
              standard output, and format specifications, each of which causes printing of the next successive argu‐
              ment.  In addition to the standard printf(1) format specifications, printf  interprets  the  following
              extensions:
              %b     causes  printf  to expand backslash escape sequences in the corresponding argument (except that
                     \c terminates output, backslashes in \', \", and \? are not removed, and octal  escapes  begin‐
                     ning with \0 may contain up to four digits).
              %q     causes  printf  to  output  the  corresponding argument in a format that can be reused as shell
                     input.
              %(datefmt)T
                     causes printf to output the date-time string resulting from using datefmt as  a  format  string
                     for  strftime(3).   The corresponding argument is an integer representing the number of seconds
                     since the epoch.  Two special argument values may be used: -1 represents the current time,  and
                     -2  represents the time the shell was invoked.  If no argument is specified, conversion behaves
                     as if -1 had been given.  This is an exception to the usual printf behavior.

              Arguments to non-string format specifiers are treated as C constants, except that a  leading  plus  or
              minus  sign  is  allowed,  and  if the leading character is a single or double quote, the value is the
              ASCII value of the following character.

              The format is reused as necessary to consume all of the arguments.  If the format requires more  argu‐
              ments  than are supplied, the extra format specifications behave as if a zero value or null string, as
              appropriate, had been supplied.  The return value is zero on success, non-zero on failure.

       pushd [-n] [+n] [-n]
       pushd [-n] [dir]
              Adds a directory to the top of the directory stack, or rotates the stack, making the new  top  of  the
              stack the current working directory.  With no arguments, exchanges the top two directories and returns
              0, unless the directory stack is empty.  Arguments, if supplied, have the following meanings:
              -n     Suppresses the normal change of directory when adding directories to the stack,  so  that  only
                     the stack is manipulated.
              +n     Rotates  the stack so that the nth directory (counting from the left of the list shown by dirs,
                     starting with zero) is at the top.
              -n     Rotates the stack so that the nth directory (counting from the right of the list shown by dirs,
                     starting with zero) is at the top.
              dir    Adds  dir  to the directory stack at the top, making it the new current working directory as if
                     it had been supplied as the argument to the cd builtin.

              If the pushd command is successful, a dirs is performed as well.  If the first  form  is  used,  pushd
              returns  0  unless  the  cd  to dir fails.  With the second form, pushd returns 0 unless the directory
              stack is empty, a non-existent directory stack element is specified, or the directory  change  to  the
              specified new current directory fails.

       pwd [-LP]
              Print  the  absolute pathname of the current working directory.  The pathname printed contains no sym‐
              bolic links if the -P option is supplied or the -o physical option  to  the  set  builtin  command  is
              enabled.   If the -L option is used, the pathname printed may contain symbolic links.  The return sta‐
              tus is 0 unless an error occurs while reading the name of the current directory or an  invalid  option
              is supplied.

       read  [-ers]  [-a  aname] [-d delim] [-i text] [-n nchars] [-N nchars] [-p prompt] [-t timeout] [-u fd] [name
       ...]
              One line is read from the standard input, or from the file descriptor fd supplied as  an  argument  to
              the  -u  option, and the first word is assigned to the first name, the second word to the second name,
              and so on, with leftover words and their intervening separators assigned to the last name.   If  there
              are  fewer words read from the input stream than names, the remaining names are assigned empty values.
              The characters in IFS are used to split the line into words using the same rules the  shell  uses  for
              expansion  (described  above under Word Splitting).  The backslash character (\) may be used to remove
              any special meaning for the next character read and for line continuation.  Options, if supplied, have
              the following meanings:
              -a aname
                     The words are assigned to sequential indices of the array variable aname, starting at 0.  aname
                     is unset before any new values are assigned.  Other name arguments are ignored.
              -d delim
                     The first character of delim is used to terminate the input line, rather than newline.
              -e     If the standard input is coming from a terminal, readline  (see  READLINE  above)  is  used  to
                     obtain  the  line.   Readline  uses the current (or default, if line editing was not previously
                     active) editing settings.
              -i text
                     If readline is being used to read the line, text is placed into the editing buffer before edit‐
                     ing begins.
              -n nchars
                     read  returns after reading nchars characters rather than waiting for a complete line of input,
                     but honor a delimiter if fewer than nchars characters are read before the delimiter.
              -N nchars
                     read returns after reading exactly nchars characters rather than waiting for a complete line of
                     input,  unless  EOF  is encountered or read times out.  Delimiter characters encountered in the
                     input are not treated specially and do not cause read to return  until  nchars  characters  are
                     read.
              -p prompt
                     Display  prompt  on  standard  error, without a trailing newline, before attempting to read any
                     input.  The prompt is displayed only if input is coming from a terminal.
              -r     Backslash does not act as an escape character.  The backslash is considered to be part  of  the
                     line.  In particular, a backslash-newline pair may not be used as a line continuation.
              -s     Silent mode.  If input is coming from a terminal, characters are not echoed.
              -t timeout
                     Cause read to time out and return failure if a complete line of input (or a specified number of
                     characters) is not read within timeout seconds.  timeout may be a decimal number with  a  frac‐
                     tional  portion  following the decimal point.  This option is only effective if read is reading
                     input from a terminal, pipe, or other special file; it has no effect when reading from  regular
                     files.   If read times out, read saves any partial input read into the specified variable name.
                     If timeout is 0, read returns immediately, without trying to read any data.  The exit status is
                     0  if input is available on the specified file descriptor, non-zero otherwise.  The exit status
                     is greater than 128 if the timeout is exceeded.
              -u fd  Read input from file descriptor fd.

              If no names are supplied, the line read is assigned to the variable REPLY.  The return code  is  zero,
              unless end-of-file is encountered, read times out (in which case the return code is greater than 128),
              a variable assignment error (such as assigning to a readonly variable)  occurs,  or  an  invalid  file
              descriptor is supplied as the argument to -u.

       readonly [-aAf] [-p] [name[=word] ...]
              The  given  names  are  marked  readonly;  the  values of these names may not be changed by subsequent
              assignment.  If the -f option is supplied, the functions corresponding to the  names  are  so  marked.
              The  -a  option  restricts  the  variables to indexed arrays; the -A option restricts the variables to
              associative arrays.  If both options are supplied, -A takes precedence.   If  no  name  arguments  are
              given,  or  if  the -p option is supplied, a list of all readonly names is printed.  The other options
              may be used to restrict the output to a subset of the set of readonly names.   The  -p  option  causes
              output  to  be  displayed  in a format that may be reused as input.  If a variable name is followed by
              =word, the value of the variable is set to word.  The return status is 0 unless an invalid  option  is
              encountered,  one  of the names is not a valid shell variable name, or -f is supplied with a name that
              is not a function.

       return [n]
              Causes a function to stop executing and return the value specified by n to its caller.  If n is  omit‐
              ted,  the  return status is that of the last command executed in the function body.  If return is used
              outside a function, but during execution of a script by the .  (source) command, it causes  the  shell
              to  stop  executing  that  script  and return either n or the exit status of the last command executed
              within the script as the exit status of the script.  If n is supplied, the return value is  its  least
              significant 8 bits.  The return status is non-zero if return is supplied a non-numeric argument, or is
              used outside a function and not during execution of a script by . or source.  Any  command  associated
              with the RETURN trap is executed before execution resumes after the function or script.

       set [--abefhkmnptuvxBCEHPT] [-o option-name] [arg ...]
       set [+abefhkmnptuvxBCEHPT] [+o option-name] [arg ...]
              Without  options,  the  name  and  value  of each shell variable are displayed in a format that can be
              reused as input for setting or resetting the currently-set variables.  Read-only variables  cannot  be
              reset.  In posix mode, only shell variables are listed.  The output is sorted according to the current
              locale.  When options are specified, they set or unset  shell  attributes.   Any  arguments  remaining
              after  option  processing  are  treated  as  values for the positional parameters and are assigned, in
              order, to $1, $2, ...  $n.  Options, if specified, have the following meanings:
              -a      Automatically mark variables and functions which are modified or created  for  export  to  the
                      environment of subsequent commands.
              -b      Report  the status of terminated background jobs immediately, rather than before the next pri‐
                      mary prompt.  This is effective only when job control is enabled.
              -e      Exit immediately if a pipeline (which may consist of a single simple command), a  list,  or  a
                      compound command (see SHELL GRAMMAR above),  exits with a non-zero status.  The shell does not
                      exit if the command that fails is part of the command list immediately following  a  while  or
                      until  keyword,  part of the test following the if or elif reserved words, part of any command
                      executed in a && or || list except the command following the final && or ||, any command in  a
                      pipeline  but  the last, or if the command's return value is being inverted with !.  If a com‐
                      pound command other than a subshell returns a non-zero status because a command  failed  while
                      -e  was being ignored, the shell does not exit.  A trap on ERR, if set, is executed before the
                      shell exits.  This option applies to the shell environment and each subshell environment sepa‐
                      rately  (see COMMAND EXECUTION ENVIRONMENT above), and may cause subshells to exit before exe‐
                      cuting all the commands in the subshell.

                      If a compound command or shell function executes in a context where -e is being ignored,  none
                      of  the commands executed within the compound command or function body will be affected by the
                      -e setting, even if -e is set and a command returns a failure status.  If a  compound  command
                      or  shell function sets -e while executing in a context where -e is ignored, that setting will
                      not have any effect until the compound command or the command  containing  the  function  call
                      completes.
              -f      Disable pathname expansion.
              -h      Remember  the  location  of  commands as they are looked up for execution.  This is enabled by
                      default.
              -k      All arguments in the form of assignment statements are placed in the environment  for  a  com‐
                      mand, not just those that precede the command name.
              -m      Monitor mode.  Job control is enabled.  This option is on by default for interactive shells on
                      systems that support it (see JOB CONTROL above).  All processes  run  in  a  separate  process
                      group.  When a background job completes, the shell prints a line containing its exit status.
              -n      Read  commands  but  do not execute them.  This may be used to check a shell script for syntax
                      errors.  This is ignored by interactive shells.
              -o option-name
                      The option-name can be one of the following:
                      allexport
                              Same as -a.
                      braceexpand
                              Same as -B.
                      emacs   Use an emacs-style command line editing interface.  This is enabled  by  default  when
                              the  shell  is  interactive,  unless the shell is started with the --noediting option.
                              This also affects the editing interface used for read -e.
                      errexit Same as -e.
                      errtrace
                              Same as -E.
                      functrace
                              Same as -T.
                      hashall Same as -h.
                      histexpand
                              Same as -H.
                      history Enable command history, as described above  under  HISTORY.   This  option  is  on  by
                              default in interactive shells.
                      ignoreeof
                              The  effect  is  as if the shell command ``IGNOREEOF=10'' had been executed (see Shell
                              Variables above).
                      keyword Same as -k.
                      monitor Same as -m.
                      noclobber
                              Same as -C.
                      noexec  Same as -n.
                      noglob  Same as -f.
                      nolog   Currently ignored.
                      notify  Same as -b.
                      nounset Same as -u.
                      onecmd  Same as -t.
                      physical
                              Same as -P.
                      pipefail
                              If set, the return value of a pipeline is the value of the last (rightmost) command to
                              exit  with  a  non-zero  status, or zero if all commands in the pipeline exit success‐
                              fully.  This option is disabled by default.
                      posix   Change the behavior of bash where the default operation differs from the  POSIX  stan‐
                              dard to match the standard (posix mode).  See SEE ALSO below for a reference to a doc‐
                              ument that details how posix mode affects bash's behavior.
                      privileged
                              Same as -p.
                      verbose Same as -v.
                      vi      Use a vi-style command line editing interface.  This also affects the  editing  inter‐
                              face used for read -e.
                      xtrace  Same as -x.
                      If  -o  is supplied with no option-name, the values of the current options are printed.  If +o
                      is supplied with no option-name, a series of set commands to recreate the current option  set‐
                      tings is displayed on the standard output.
              -p      Turn  on privileged mode.  In this mode, the $ENV and $BASH_ENV files are not processed, shell
                      functions are not inherited from the environment, and the  SHELLOPTS,  BASHOPTS,  CDPATH,  and
                      GLOBIGNORE variables, if they appear in the environment, are ignored.  If the shell is started
                      with the effective user (group) id not equal to the real user (group) id, and the -p option is
                      not  supplied,  these  actions are taken and the effective user id is set to the real user id.
                      If the -p option is supplied at startup, the effective user id is  not  reset.   Turning  this
                      option off causes the effective user and group ids to be set to the real user and group ids.
              -t      Exit after reading and executing one command.
              -u      Treat unset variables and parameters other than the special parameters "@" and "*" as an error
                      when performing parameter expansion.  If expansion is attempted on an unset variable or param‐
                      eter,  the  shell prints an error message, and, if not interactive, exits with a non-zero sta‐
                      tus.
              -v      Print shell input lines as they are read.
              -x      After expanding each simple command, for command, case command, select command, or  arithmetic
                      for command, display the expanded value of PS4, followed by the command and its expanded argu‐
                      ments or associated word list.
              -B      The shell performs brace expansion (see Brace Expansion above).  This is on by default.
              -C      If set, bash does not overwrite an existing file with the >, >&, and <> redirection operators.
                      This may be overridden when creating output files by using the redirection operator >| instead
                      of >.
              -E      If set, any trap on ERR is inherited by shell functions, command substitutions,  and  commands
                      executed in a subshell environment.  The ERR trap is normally not inherited in such cases.
              -H      Enable !  style history substitution.  This option is on by default when the shell is interac‐
                      tive.
              -P      If set, the shell does not resolve symbolic links when executing  commands  such  as  cd  that
                      change  the  current working directory.  It uses the physical directory structure instead.  By
                      default, bash follows the logical chain of directories when performing commands  which  change
                      the current directory.
              -T      If set, any traps on DEBUG and RETURN are inherited by shell functions, command substitutions,
                      and commands executed in a subshell environment.  The DEBUG and RETURN traps are normally  not
                      inherited in such cases.
              --      If  no arguments follow this option, then the positional parameters are unset.  Otherwise, the
                      positional parameters are set to the args, even if some of them begin with a -.
              -       Signal the end of options, cause all remaining args to be assigned to the  positional  parame‐
                      ters.   The -x and -v options are turned off.  If there are no args, the positional parameters
                      remain unchanged.

              The options are off by default unless otherwise noted.  Using + rather than - causes these options  to
              be  turned  off.   The  options can also be specified as arguments to an invocation of the shell.  The
              current set of options may be found in $-.  The return status is always true unless an invalid  option
              is encountered.

       shift [n]
              The  positional  parameters from n+1 ... are renamed to $1 ....  Parameters represented by the numbers
              $# down to $#-n+1 are unset.  n must be a non-negative number less than or equal to $#.  If n is 0, no
              parameters are changed.  If n is not given, it is assumed to be 1.  If n is greater than $#, the posi‐
              tional parameters are not changed.  The return status is greater than zero if n is greater than $#  or
              less than zero; otherwise 0.

       shopt [-pqsu] [-o] [optname ...]
              Toggle  the  values of settings controlling optional shell behavior.  The settings can be either those
              listed below, or, if the -o option is used, those available with the -o option to the set builtin com‐
              mand.   With  no  options, or with the -p option, a list of all settable options is displayed, with an
              indication of whether or not each is set.  The -p option causes output to be displayed in a form  that
              may be reused as input.  Other options have the following meanings:
              -s     Enable (set) each optname.
              -u     Disable (unset) each optname.
              -q     Suppresses  normal  output (quiet mode); the return status indicates whether the optname is set
                     or unset.  If multiple optname arguments are given with -q, the return status is  zero  if  all
                     optnames are enabled; non-zero otherwise.
              -o     Restricts the values of optname to be those defined for the -o option to the set builtin.

              If  either -s or -u is used with no optname arguments, shopt shows only those options which are set or
              unset, respectively.  Unless otherwise noted, the shopt options are disabled (unset) by default.

              The return status when listing options is zero if all optnames are enabled, non-zero otherwise.   When
              setting or unsetting options, the return status is zero unless an optname is not a valid shell option.

              The list of shopt options is:

              autocd  If  set, a command name that is the name of a directory is executed as if it were the argument
                      to the cd command.  This option is only used by interactive shells.
              cdable_vars
                      If set, an argument to the cd builtin command that is not a directory is  assumed  to  be  the
                      name of a variable whose value is the directory to change to.
              cdspell If  set,  minor  errors  in the spelling of a directory component in a cd command will be cor‐
                      rected.  The errors checked for are transposed characters, a missing character, and one  char‐
                      acter  too many.  If a correction is found, the corrected filename is printed, and the command
                      proceeds.  This option is only used by interactive shells.
              checkhash
                      If set, bash checks that a command found in the hash table exists before trying to execute it.
                      If a hashed command no longer exists, a normal path search is performed.
              checkjobs
                      If  set,  bash  lists the status of any stopped and running jobs before exiting an interactive
                      shell.  If any jobs are running, this causes the exit to be deferred until a  second  exit  is
                      attempted  without an intervening command (see JOB CONTROL above).  The shell always postpones
                      exiting if any jobs are stopped.
              checkwinsize
                      If set, bash checks the window size after each command and, if necessary, updates  the  values
                      of LINES and COLUMNS.
              cmdhist If  set, bash attempts to save all lines of a multiple-line command in the same history entry.
                      This allows easy re-editing of multi-line commands.
              compat31
                      If set, bash changes its behavior to that of version 3.1 with respect to quoted  arguments  to
                      the  [[ conditional command's =~ operator and locale-specific string comparison when using the
                      [[ conditional command's < and > operators.  Bash versions prior to bash-4.1 use ASCII  colla‐
                      tion  and  strcmp(3);  bash-4.1 and later use the current locale's collation sequence and str‐
                      coll(3).
              compat32
                      If set, bash changes its behavior to that of  version  3.2  with  respect  to  locale-specific
                      string  comparison  when  using  the  [[ conditional command's < and > operators (see previous
                      item).
              compat40
                      If set, bash changes its behavior to that of  version  4.0  with  respect  to  locale-specific
                      string  comparison  when using the [[ conditional command's < and > operators (see description
                      of compat31) and the effect of interrupting a command  list.   Bash  versions  4.0  and  later
                      interrupt the list as if the shell received the interrupt; previous versions continue with the
                      next command in the list.
              compat41
                      If set, bash, when in posix mode, treats a single quote in a double-quoted parameter expansion
                      as  a  special  character.   The  single quotes must match (an even number) and the characters
                      between the single quotes are considered quoted.  This is the behavior of posix  mode  through
                      version 4.1.  The default bash behavior remains as in previous versions.
              compat42
                      If  set,  bash does not process the replacement string in the pattern substitution word expan‐
                      sion using quote removal.
              complete_fullquote
                      If set, bash quotes all shell metacharacters in filenames and directory names when  performing
                      completion.   If  not set, bash removes metacharacters such as the dollar sign from the set of
                      characters that will be quoted in completed filenames  when  these  metacharacters  appear  in
                      shell  variable references in words to be completed.  This means that dollar signs in variable
                      names that expand to directories will not be quoted; however, any dollar  signs  appearing  in
                      filenames  will  not be quoted, either.  This is active only when bash is using backslashes to
                      quote completed filenames.  This variable is set by default, which is the default bash  behav‐
                      ior in versions through 4.2.
              direxpand
                      If set, bash replaces directory names with the results of word expansion when performing file‐
                      name completion.  This changes the contents of the readline editing buffer.  If not set,  bash
                      attempts to preserve what the user typed.
              dirspell
                      If  set,  bash  attempts  spelling correction on directory names during word completion if the
                      directory name initially supplied does not exist.
              dotglob If set, bash includes filenames beginning with a `.' in the results of pathname expansion.
              execfail
                      If set, a non-interactive shell will not exit if it cannot execute the file  specified  as  an
                      argument to the exec builtin command.  An interactive shell does not exit if exec fails.
              expand_aliases
                      If  set,  aliases  are  expanded  as described above under ALIASES.  This option is enabled by
                      default for interactive shells.
              extdebug
                      If set, behavior intended for use by debuggers is enabled:
                      1.     The -F option to the declare builtin displays the source file name and line number cor‐
                             responding to each function name supplied as an argument.
                      2.     If  the  command  run  by  the DEBUG trap returns a non-zero value, the next command is
                             skipped and not executed.
                      3.     If the command run by the DEBUG trap returns a value of 2, and the shell  is  executing
                             in  a  subroutine  (a  shell  function  or  a  shell script executed by the . or source
                             builtins), a call to return is simulated.
                      4.     BASH_ARGC and BASH_ARGV are updated as described in their descriptions above.
                      5.     Function tracing is enabled:  command  substitution,  shell  functions,  and  subshells
                             invoked with ( command ) inherit the DEBUG and RETURN traps.
                      6.     Error tracing is enabled:  command substitution, shell functions, and subshells invoked
                             with ( command ) inherit the ERR trap.
              extglob If set, the extended pattern matching features described above under  Pathname  Expansion  are
                      enabled.
              extquote
                      If  set,  $'string' and $"string" quoting is performed within ${parameter} expansions enclosed
                      in double quotes.  This option is enabled by default.
              failglob
                      If set, patterns which fail to match filenames during pathname expansion result in  an  expan‐
                      sion error.
              force_fignore
                      If  set,  the  suffixes specified by the FIGNORE shell variable cause words to be ignored when
                      performing word completion even if the ignored words are the only possible  completions.   See
                      SHELL VARIABLES above for a description of FIGNORE.  This option is enabled by default.
              globasciiranges
                      If  set,  range expressions used in pattern matching bracket expressions (see Pattern Matching
                      above) behave as if in the traditional C locale when performing  comparisons.   That  is,  the
                      current locale's collating sequence is not taken into account, so b will not collate between A
                      and B, and upper-case and lower-case ASCII characters will collate together.
              globstar
                      If set, the pattern ** used in a pathname expansion context will match all files and  zero  or
                      more  directories and subdirectories.  If the pattern is followed by a /, only directories and
                      subdirectories match.
              gnu_errfmt
                      If set, shell error messages are written in the standard GNU error message format.
              histappend
                      If set, the history list is appended to the file named by the value of the  HISTFILE  variable
                      when the shell exits, rather than overwriting the file.
              histreedit
                      If  set,  and readline is being used, a user is given the opportunity to re-edit a failed his‐
                      tory substitution.
              histverify
                      If set, and readline is being used, the results of history substitution  are  not  immediately
                      passed  to  the shell parser.  Instead, the resulting line is loaded into the readline editing
                      buffer, allowing further modification.
              hostcomplete
                      If set, and readline is being used, bash will attempt to perform hostname  completion  when  a
                      word containing a @ is being completed (see Completing under READLINE above).  This is enabled
                      by default.
              huponexit
                      If set, bash will send SIGHUP to all jobs when an interactive login shell exits.
              interactive_comments
                      If set, allow a word beginning with # to cause that word and all remaining characters on  that
                      line  to  be  ignored in an interactive shell (see COMMENTS above).  This option is enabled by
                      default.
              lastpipe
                      If set, and job control is not active, the shell runs the last command of a pipeline not  exe‐
                      cuted in the background in the current shell environment.
              lithist If  set,  and the cmdhist option is enabled, multi-line commands are saved to the history with
                      embedded newlines rather than using semicolon separators where possible.
              login_shell
                      The shell sets this option if it is started as a login  shell  (see  INVOCATION  above).   The
                      value may not be changed.
              mailwarn
                      If set, and a file that bash is checking for mail has been accessed since the last time it was
                      checked, the message ``The mail in mailfile has been read'' is displayed.
              no_empty_cmd_completion
                      If set, and readline is being used, bash will not attempt to search the PATH for possible com‐
                      pletions when completion is attempted on an empty line.
              nocaseglob
                      If  set,  bash matches filenames in a case-insensitive fashion when performing pathname expan‐
                      sion (see Pathname Expansion above).
              nocasematch
                      If set, bash matches patterns in a case-insensitive fashion  when  performing  matching  while
                      executing case or [[ conditional commands.
              nullglob
                      If  set, bash allows patterns which match no files (see Pathname Expansion above) to expand to
                      a null string, rather than themselves.
              progcomp
                      If set, the  programmable  completion  facilities  (see  Programmable  Completion  above)  are
                      enabled.  This option is enabled by default.
              promptvars
                      If  set,  prompt  strings undergo parameter expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expan‐
                      sion, and quote removal after being expanded as described in PROMPTING above.  This option  is
                      enabled by default.
              restricted_shell
                      The  shell  sets this option if it is started in restricted mode (see RESTRICTED SHELL below).
                      The value may not be changed.  This is not reset when the startup files are executed, allowing
                      the startup files to discover whether or not a shell is restricted.
              shift_verbose
                      If  set,  the shift builtin prints an error message when the shift count exceeds the number of
                      positional parameters.
              sourcepath
                      If set, the source (.) builtin uses the value of PATH to find  the  directory  containing  the
                      file supplied as an argument.  This option is enabled by default.
              xpg_echo
                      If set, the echo builtin expands backslash-escape sequences by default.

       suspend [-f]
              Suspend  the execution of this shell until it receives a SIGCONT signal.  A login shell cannot be sus‐
              pended; the -f option can be used to override this and force the suspension.  The return status  is  0
              unless the shell is a login shell and -f is not supplied, or if job control is not enabled.

       test expr
       [ expr ]
              Return  a  status  of  0 (true) or 1 (false) depending on the evaluation of the conditional expression
              expr.  Each operator and operand must be a separate argument.  Expressions are composed  of  the  pri‐
              maries  described  above under CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS.  test does not accept any options, nor does it
              accept and ignore an argument of -- as signifying the end of options.

              Expressions may be combined using the following operators, listed in decreasing order  of  precedence.
              The  evaluation depends on the number of arguments; see below.  Operator precedence is used when there
              are five or more arguments.
              ! expr True if expr is false.
              ( expr )
                     Returns the value of expr.  This may be used to override the normal precedence of operators.
              expr1 -a expr2
                     True if both expr1 and expr2 are true.
              expr1 -o expr2
                     True if either expr1 or expr2 is true.

              test and [ evaluate conditional expressions using a set of rules based on the number of arguments.

              0 arguments
                     The expression is false.
              1 argument
                     The expression is true if and only if the argument is not null.
              2 arguments
                     If the first argument is !, the expression is true if and only if the second argument is  null.
                     If  the first argument is one of the unary conditional operators listed above under CONDITIONAL
                     EXPRESSIONS, the expression is true if the unary test is true.  If the first argument is not  a
                     valid unary conditional operator, the expression is false.
              3 arguments
                     The following conditions are applied in the order listed.  If the second argument is one of the
                     binary conditional operators listed above under CONDITIONAL  EXPRESSIONS,  the  result  of  the
                     expression  is  the  result of the binary test using the first and third arguments as operands.
                     The -a and -o operators are considered binary operators when there are three arguments.  If the
                     first  argument  is  !, the value is the negation of the two-argument test using the second and
                     third arguments.  If the first argument is exactly ( and the third argument is exactly  ),  the
                     result is the one-argument test of the second argument.  Otherwise, the expression is false.
              4 arguments
                     If  the  first  argument is !, the result is the negation of the three-argument expression com‐
                     posed of the remaining arguments.  Otherwise, the expression is parsed and evaluated  according
                     to precedence using the rules listed above.
              5 or more arguments
                     The expression is parsed and evaluated according to precedence using the rules listed above.

              When used with test or [, the < and > operators sort lexicographically using ASCII ordering.

       times  Print  the  accumulated user and system times for the shell and for processes run from the shell.  The
              return status is 0.

       trap [-lp] [[arg] sigspec ...]
              The command arg is to be read and executed when the shell  receives  signal(s)  sigspec.   If  arg  is
              absent  (and  there is a single sigspec) or -, each specified signal is reset to its original disposi‐
              tion (the value it had upon entrance to the shell).  If arg is the null string the signal specified by
              each sigspec is ignored by the shell and by the commands it invokes.  If arg is not present and -p has
              been supplied, then the trap commands associated with each sigspec are displayed.  If no arguments are
              supplied or if only -p is given, trap prints the list of commands associated with each signal.  The -l
              option causes the shell to print a list of signal names and their corresponding numbers.  Each sigspec
              is  either a signal name defined in <signal.h>, or a signal number.  Signal names are case insensitive
              and the SIG prefix is optional.

              If a sigspec is EXIT (0) the command arg is executed on exit from the shell.  If a sigspec  is  DEBUG,
              the  command  arg  is executed before every simple command, for command, case command, select command,
              every arithmetic for command, and before the first command executes in a  shell  function  (see  SHELL
              GRAMMAR  above).   Refer to the description of the extdebug option to the shopt builtin for details of
              its effect on the DEBUG trap.  If a sigspec is RETURN, the command arg is executed each time  a  shell
              function or a script executed with the . or source builtins finishes executing.

              If  a sigspec is ERR, the command arg is executed whenever a a pipeline (which may consist of a single
              simple command), a list, or a compound command returns a non-zero exit status, subject to the  follow‐
              ing  conditions.  The ERR trap is not executed if the failed command is part of the command list imme‐
              diately following a while or until keyword, part of the test in an if statement,  part  of  a  command
              executed in a && or || list except the command following the final && or ||, any command in a pipeline
              but the last, or if the command's return value is being inverted using !.  These are the  same  condi‐
              tions obeyed by the errexit (-e) option.

              Signals  ignored  upon  entry  to  the shell cannot be trapped or reset.  Trapped signals that are not
              being ignored are reset to their original values in a subshell or subshell  environment  when  one  is
              created.  The return status is false if any sigspec is invalid; otherwise trap returns true.

       type [-aftpP] name [name ...]
              With  no  options,  indicate  how each name would be interpreted if used as a command name.  If the -t
              option is used, type prints a string which is one of alias, keyword, function,  builtin,  or  file  if
              name  is an alias, shell reserved word, function, builtin, or disk file, respectively.  If the name is
              not found, then nothing is printed, and an exit status of false is returned.   If  the  -p  option  is
              used, type either returns the name of the disk file that would be executed if name were specified as a
              command name, or nothing if ``type -t name'' would not return file.   The  -P  option  forces  a  PATH
              search  for each name, even if ``type -t name'' would not return file.  If a command is hashed, -p and
              -P print the hashed value, which is not necessarily the file that appears first in PATH.   If  the  -a
              option  is  used,  type prints all of the places that contain an executable named name.  This includes
              aliases and functions, if and only if the -p option is not also used.  The table of hashed commands is
              not  consulted  when  using  -a.   The -f option suppresses shell function lookup, as with the command
              builtin.  type returns true if all of the arguments are found, false if any are not found.

       ulimit [-HSTabcdefilmnpqrstuvx [limit]]
              Provides control over the resources available to the shell and to processes started by it, on  systems
              that  allow  such  control.   The -H and -S options specify that the hard or soft limit is set for the
              given resource.  A hard limit cannot be increased by a non-root user once it is set; a soft limit  may
              be  increased up to the value of the hard limit.  If neither -H nor -S is specified, both the soft and
              hard limits are set.  The value of limit can be a number in the unit specified for the resource or one
              of  the  special  values hard, soft, or unlimited, which stand for the current hard limit, the current
              soft limit, and no limit, respectively.  If limit is omitted, the current value of the soft  limit  of
              the resource is printed, unless the -H option is given.  When more than one resource is specified, the
              limit name and unit are printed before the value.  Other options are interpreted as follows:
              -a     All current limits are reported
              -b     The maximum socket buffer size
              -c     The maximum size of core files created
              -d     The maximum size of a process's data segment
              -e     The maximum scheduling priority ("nice")
              -f     The maximum size of files written by the shell and its children
              -i     The maximum number of pending signals
              -l     The maximum size that may be locked into memory
              -m     The maximum resident set size (many systems do not honor this limit)
              -n     The maximum number of open file descriptors (most systems do not allow this value to be set)
              -p     The pipe size in 512-byte blocks (this may not be set)
              -q     The maximum number of bytes in POSIX message queues
              -r     The maximum real-time scheduling priority
              -s     The maximum stack size
              -t     The maximum amount of cpu time in seconds
              -u     The maximum number of processes available to a single user
              -v     The maximum amount of virtual memory available to the shell and, on some systems, to its  chil‐
                     dren
              -x     The maximum number of file locks
              -T     The maximum number of threads

              If  limit  is  given, and the -a option is not used, limit is the new value of the specified resource.
              If no option is given, then -f is assumed.  Values are in 1024-byte increments, except for  -t,  which
              is  in  seconds;  -p, which is in units of 512-byte blocks; and -T, -b, -n, and -u, which are unscaled
              values.  The return status is 0 unless an invalid option or argument is supplied, or an  error  occurs
              while setting a new limit.

       umask [-p] [-S] [mode]
              The  user  file-creation  mask  is  set to mode.  If mode begins with a digit, it is interpreted as an
              octal number; otherwise it is interpreted as  a  symbolic  mode  mask  similar  to  that  accepted  by
              chmod(1).   If  mode  is  omitted, the current value of the mask is printed.  The -S option causes the
              mask to be printed in symbolic form; the default output is an octal number.  If the -p option is  sup‐
              plied, and mode is omitted, the output is in a form that may be reused as input.  The return status is
              0 if the mode was successfully changed or if no mode argument was supplied, and false otherwise.

       unalias [-a] [name ...]
              Remove each name from the list of defined aliases.  If -a  is  supplied,  all  alias  definitions  are
              removed.  The return value is true unless a supplied name is not a defined alias.

       unset [-fv] [-n] [name ...]
              For  each  name,  remove the corresponding variable or function.  If the -v option is given, each name
              refers to a shell variable, and that variable is removed.  Read-only variables may not be  unset.   If
              -f is specified, each name refers to a shell function, and the function definition is removed.  If the
              -n option is supplied, and name is a variable with the nameref attribute, name will  be  unset  rather
              than  the  variable  it references.  -n has no effect if the -f option is supplied.  If no options are
              supplied, each name refers to a variable; if there is no variable by that name, any function with that
              name  is  unset.  Each unset variable or function is removed from the environment passed to subsequent
              commands.  If any of COMP_WORDBREAKS, RANDOM, SECONDS, LINENO, HISTCMD, FUNCNAME, GROUPS, or  DIRSTACK
              are  unset,  they lose their special properties, even if they are subsequently reset.  The exit status
              is true unless a name is readonly.

       wait [-n] [n ...]
              Wait for each specified child process and return its termination status.  Each n may be a  process  ID
              or  a  job specification; if a job spec is given, all processes in that job's pipeline are waited for.
              If n is not given, all currently active child processes are waited for, and the return status is zero.
              If  the  -n option is supplied, wait waits for any job to terminate and returns its exit status.  If n
              specifies a non-existent process or job, the return status is 127.  Otherwise, the  return  status  is
              the exit status of the last process or job waited for.

RESTRICTED SHELL
       If  bash  is  started  with  the  name  rbash,  or the -r option is supplied at invocation, the shell becomes
       restricted.  A restricted shell is used to set up an environment more controlled than the standard shell.  It
       behaves identically to bash with the exception that the following are disallowed or not performed:

       ·      changing directories with cd

       ·      setting or unsetting the values of SHELL, PATH, ENV, or BASH_ENV

       ·      specifying command names containing /

       ·      specifying a filename containing a / as an argument to the .  builtin command

       ·      specifying a filename containing a slash as an argument to the -p option to the hash builtin command

       ·      importing function definitions from the shell environment at startup

       ·      parsing the value of SHELLOPTS from the shell environment at startup

       ·      redirecting output using the >, >|, <>, >&, &>, and >> redirection operators

       ·      using the exec builtin command to replace the shell with another command

       ·      adding or deleting builtin commands with the -f and -d options to the enable builtin command

       ·      using the enable builtin command to enable disabled shell builtins

       ·      specifying the -p option to the command builtin command

       ·      turning off restricted mode with set +r or set +o restricted.

       These restrictions are enforced after any startup files are read.

       When  a command that is found to be a shell script is executed (see COMMAND EXECUTION above), rbash turns off
       any restrictions in the shell spawned to execute the script.

SEE ALSO
       Bash Reference Manual, Brian Fox and Chet Ramey
       The Gnu Readline Library, Brian Fox and Chet Ramey
       The Gnu History Library, Brian Fox and Chet Ramey
       Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX) Part 2: Shell and Utilities, IEEE --
              http://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/
       http://tiswww.case.edu/~chet/bash/POSIX -- a description of posix mode
       sh(1), ksh(1), csh(1)
       emacs(1), vi(1)
       readline(3)

FILES
       /bin/bash
              The bash executable
       /etc/profile
              The systemwide initialization file, executed for login shells
       /etc/bash.bashrc
              The systemwide per-interactive-shell startup file
       /etc/bash.bash.logout
              The systemwide login shell cleanup file, executed when a login shell exits
       ~/.bash_profile
              The personal initialization file, executed for login shells
       ~/.bashrc
              The individual per-interactive-shell startup file
       ~/.bash_logout
              The individual login shell cleanup file, executed when a login shell exits
       ~/.inputrc
              Individual readline initialization file

AUTHORS
       Brian Fox, Free Software Foundation
       bfox@gnu.org

       Chet Ramey, Case Western Reserve University
       chet.ramey@case.edu

BUG REPORTS
       If you find a bug in bash, you should report it.  But first, you should make sure that it really  is  a  bug,
       and  that  it  appears  in  the  latest  version  of  bash.   The  latest  version  is  always available from
       ftp://ftp.gnu.org/pub/gnu/bash/.

       Once you have determined that a bug actually exists, use the bashbug command to submit a bug report.  If  you
       have  a  fix,  you  are  encouraged to mail that as well!  Suggestions and `philosophical' bug reports may be
       mailed to bug-bash@gnu.org or posted to the Usenet newsgroup gnu.bash.bug.

       ALL bug reports should include:

       The version number of bash
       The hardware and operating system
       The compiler used to compile
       A description of the bug behaviour
       A short script or `recipe' which exercises the bug

       bashbug inserts the first three items automatically into the template it provides for filing a bug report.

       Comments and bug reports concerning this manual page should be directed to chet.ramey@case.edu.

BUGS
       It's too big and too slow.

       There are some subtle differences between bash and traditional versions of sh, mostly because  of  the  POSIX
       specification.

       Aliases are confusing in some uses.

       Shell builtin commands and functions are not stoppable/restartable.

       Compound  commands and command sequences of the form `a ; b ; c' are not handled gracefully when process sus‐
       pension is attempted.  When a process is stopped, the shell immediately executes  the  next  command  in  the
       sequence.   It  suffices  to  place the sequence of commands between parentheses to force it into a subshell,
       which may be stopped as a unit.

       Array variables may not (yet) be exported.

       There may be only one active coprocess at a time.



GNU Bash 4.3                                       2014 February 2                                           BASH(1)
