BDFTOPCF(1)                                    General Commands Manual                                   BDFTOPCF(1)



NAME
       bdftopcf - convert X font from Bitmap Distribution Format to Portable Compiled Format

SYNOPSIS
       bdftopcf [ -pn ] [ -un ] [ -m ] [ -l ] [ -M ] [ -L ] [ -t ] [ -i ] [ -o outputfile ] fontfile.bdf

DESCRIPTION
       Bdftopcf  is a font compiler for the X server and font server.  Fonts in Portable Compiled Format can be read
       by any architecture, although the file is structured to  allow  one  particular  architecture  to  read  them
       directly  without reformatting.  This allows fast reading on the appropriate machine, but the files are still
       portable (but read more slowly) on other machines.

OPTIONS
       -pn     Sets the font glyph padding.  Each glyph in the font will have each scanline padded in to a  multiple
               of n bytes, where n is 1, 2, 4 or 8.

       -un     Sets  the  font  scanline  unit.   When the font bit order is different from the font byte order, the
               scanline unit n describes what unit of data (in bytes) are to be swapped; the unit i can be 1, 2 or 4
               bytes.

       -m      Sets  the  font bit order to MSB (most significant bit) first.  Bits for each glyph will be placed in
               this order; i.e., the left most bit on the screen will be in the highest valued bit in each unit.

       -l      Sets the font bit order to LSB (least significant bit) first.  The left most bit on the  screen  will
               be in the lowest valued bit in each unit.

       -M      Sets  the font byte order to MSB first.  All multi-byte data in the file (metrics, bitmaps and every‐
               thing else) will be written most significant byte first.

       -L      Sets the font byte order to LSB first.  All multi-byte data in the file (metrics, bitmaps and  every‐
               thing else) will be written least significant byte first.

       -t      When  this  option  is specified, bdftopcf will convert fonts into "terminal" fonts when possible.  A
               terminal font has each glyph image padded to the same size; the X server  can  usually  render  these
               types of fonts more quickly.

       -i      This  option  inhibits  the normal computation of ink metrics.  When a font has glyph images which do
               not fill the bitmap image (i.e., the "on" pixels don't extend to the edges of the  metrics)  bdftopcf
               computes  the actual ink metrics and places them in the .pcf file; the -t option inhibits this behav‐
               iour.

       -o output-file-name
               By default bdftopcf writes the pcf file to standard output; this option gives the name of a  file  to
               be used instead.

       -v      Print version information and exit.

SEE ALSO
       X(7)

AUTHOR
       Keith Packard, MIT X Consortium



X Version 11                                       bdftopcf 1.0.4                                        BDFTOPCF(1)
