BITMAP(1)                                      General Commands Manual                                     BITMAP(1)



NAME
       bitmap, bmtoa, atobm - bitmap editor and converter utilities for the X Window System

SYNOPSIS
       bitmap [ -options ... ] [ filename ] [ basename ]

       bmtoa [ -chars ... ] [ filename ]

       atobm [ -chars cc ] [ -name variable ] [ -xhot number ] [ -yhot number ] [ filename ]

DESCRIPTION
       The  bitmap  program is a rudimentary tool for creating or editing rectangular images made up of 1's and 0's.
       Bitmaps are used in X for defining clipping regions, cursor shapes, icon shapes, and tile  and  stipple  pat‐
       terns.

       The bmtoa and atobm filters convert bitmap files (FILE FORMAT) to and from ASCII strings.  They are most com‐
       monly used to quickly print out bitmaps and to generate versions for including in text.

COMMAND LINE OPTIONS
       Bitmap supports the standard X Toolkit command line arguments (see X(7)).  The following additional arguments
       are supported as well.

       -size WIDTHxHEIGHT
           Specifies size of the grid in squares.

       -sw dimension
           Specifies the width of squares in pixels.

       -sh dimension
           Specifies the height of squares in pixels.

       -gt dimension
           Grid  tolerance.   If  the  square  dimensions fall below the specified value, grid will be automatically
           turned off.

       -grid, +grid
           Turns on or off the grid lines.

       -axes, +axes
           Turns on or off the major axes.

       -dashed, +dashed
           Turns on or off dashing for the frame and grid lines.

       -stippled, +stippled
           Turns on or off stippling of highlighted squares.

       -proportional, +proportional
           Turns proportional mode on or off.  If proportional mode is on, square width is equal to  square  height.
           If proportional mode is off, bitmap will use the smaller square dimension, if they were initially differ‐
           ent.

       -dashes filename
           Specifies the bitmap to be used as a stipple for dashing.

       -stipple filename
           Specifies the bitmap to be used as a stipple for highlighting.

       -hl color
           Specifies the color used for highlighting.

       -fr color
           Specifies the color used for the frame and grid lines.

       filename
           Specifies the bitmap to be initially loaded into the program.  If the file does not  exist,  bitmap  will
           assume it is a new file.

       basename
           Specifies the basename to be used in the C code output file.  If it is different than the basename in the
           working file, bitmap will change it when saving the file.

       Bmtoa accepts the following option:

       -chars cc
           This option specifies the pair of characters to use in the string version of the bitmap.  The first char‐
           acter  is  used for 0 bits and the second character is used for 1 bits.  The default is to use dashes (-)
           for 0's and sharp signs (#) for 1's.

       Atobm accepts the following options:

       -chars cc
           This option specifies the pair of characters to use when converting string bitmaps into  arrays  of  num‐
           bers.   The  first character represents a 0 bit and the second character represents a 1 bit.  The default
           is to use dashes (-) for 0's and sharp signs (#) for 1's.

       -name variable
           This option specifies the variable name to be used when writing out the bitmap file.  The default  is  to
           use the basename of the filename command line argument or leave it blank if the standard input is read.

       -xhot number
           This option specifies the X coordinate of the hotspot.  Only positive values are allowed.  By default, no
           hotspot information is included.

       -yhot number
           This option specifies the Y coordinate of the hotspot.  Only positive values are allowed.  By default, no
           hotspot information is included.

USAGE
       Bitmap  displays  grid in which each square represents a single bit in the picture being edited.  Actual size
       of the bitmap image, as it would appear normally and inverted, can be obtained by pressing Meta-I  key.   You
       are  free  to move the image popup out of the way to continue editing.  Pressing the left mouse button in the
       popup window or Meta-I again will remove the real size bitmap image.

       If the bitmap is to be used for defining a cursor, one of the squares in the images may be designated as  the
       hot  spot.   This  determines  where  the  cursor is actually pointing.  For cursors with sharp tips (such as
       arrows or fingers), this is usually at the end of  the  tip;  for  symmetric  cursors  (such  as  crosses  or
       bullseyes), this is usually at the center.

       Bitmaps  are  stored as small C code fragments suitable for including in applications.  They provide an array
       of bits as well as symbolic constants giving the width, height, and hot spot (if specified) that may be  used
       in creating cursors, icons, and tiles.

EDITING
       To  edit a bitmap image simply click on one of the buttons with drawing commands (Point, Curve, Line, Rectan‐
       gle, etc.) and move the pointer into the bitmap grid window.  Press one of the buttons on your mouse and  the
       appropriate  action  will  take place.  You can either set, clear or invert the gird squares.  Setting a grid
       square corresponds to setting a bit in the bitmap image to 1.  Clearing a grid square corresponds to  setting
       a  bit  in  the bitmap image to 0.  Inverting a grid square corresponds to changing a bit in the bitmap image
       from 0 to 1 or 1 to 0, depending what its previous state was.  The default behavior of mouse  buttons  is  as
       specified below.

                 MouseButton1        Set
                 MouseButton2        Invert
                 MouseButton3        Clear
                 MouseButton4        Clear
                 MouseButton5        Clear

       This default behavior can be changed by setting the button function resources.  An example is provided below.

                 bitmap*button1Function: Set
                 bitmap*button2Function: Clear
                 bitmap*button3Function: Invert
                 etc.

       The button function applies to all drawing commands, including copying, moving and pasting, flood filling and
       setting the hot spot.

DRAWING COMMANDS
       Here is the list of drawing commands accessible through the buttons at the left  side  of  the  application's
       window.   Some  commands  can  be aborted by pressing A inside the bitmap window, allowing the user to select
       different guiding points where applicable.

       Clear
           This command clears all bits in the bitmap image.  The grid squares will be set to the background  color.
           Pressing C inside the bitmap window has the same effect.

       Set This  command  sets  all bits in the bitmap image.  The grid squares will be set to the foreground color.
           Pressing S inside the bitmap window has the same effect.

       Invert
           This command inverts all bits in the bitmap image.  The grid  squares  will  be  inverted  appropriately.
           Pressing I inside the bitmap window has the same effect.

       Mark
           This  command is used to mark an area of the grid by dragging out a rectangular shape in the highlighting
           color.  Once the area is marked, it can be operated on by a number  of  commands  (see  Up,  Down,  Left,
           Right, Rotate, Flip, Cut, etc.)  Only one marked area can be present at any time.  If you attempt to mark
           another area, the old mark will vanish.  The same effect can be achieved by  pressing  Shift-MouseButton1
           and  dragging  out a rectangle in the grid window.  Pressing Shift-MouseButton2 will mark the entire grid
           area.

       Unmark
           This command will cause the marked area to vanish.  The same effect can be achieved  by  pressing  Shift-
           MouseButton3.

       Copy
           This  command  is  used  to copy an area of the grid from one location to another.  If there is no marked
           grid area displayed, Copy behaves just like Mark described above.  Once there is a marked grid area  dis‐
           played  in the highlighting color, this command has two alternative behaviors.  If you click a mouse but‐
           ton inside the marked area, you will be able to drag the rectangle that represents the marked area to the
           desired location.  After you release the mouse button, the area will be copied.  If you click outside the
           marked area, Copy will assume that you wish to mark a different region of the bitmap image, thus it  will
           behave like Mark again.

       Move
           This  command  is  used to move an area of the grid from one location to another.  Its behavior resembles
           the behavior of Copy command, except that the marked area will be moved instead of copied.

       Flip Horizontally
           This command will flip the bitmap image with respect to the horizontal axes.  If a  marked  area  of  the
           grid  is  highlighted,  it will operate only inside the marked area.  Pressing H inside the bitmap window
           has the same effect.

       Up  This command moves the bitmap image one pixel up.  If a marked area of the grid is highlighted,  it  will
           operate only inside the marked area.  Pressing UpArrow inside the bitmap window has the same effect.

       Flip Vertically
           This  command will flip the bitmap image with respect to the vertical axes.  If a marked area of the grid
           is highlighted, it will operate only inside the marked area.  Pressing V inside the bitmap window has the
           same effect.

       Left
           This  command moves the bitmap image one pixel to the left.  If a marked area of the grid is highlighted,
           it will operate only inside the marked area.  Pressing LeftArrow inside the bitmap window  has  the  same
           effect.

       Fold
           This  command  will  fold  the bitmap image so that the opposite corners become adjacent.  This is useful
           when creating bitmap images for tiling.  Pressing F inside the bitmap window has the same effect.

       Right
           This command moves the bitmap image one pixel to the right.  If a marked area of the grid is highlighted,
           it  will  operate only inside the marked area.  Pressing RightArrow inside the bitmap window has the same
           effect.

       Rotate Left
           This command rotates the bitmap image 90 degrees to the left (counter clockwise.)  If a  marked  area  of
           the  grid is highlighted, it will operate only inside the marked area.  Pressing L inside the bitmap win‐
           dow has the same effect.

       Down
           This command moves the bitmap image one pixel down.  If a marked area of the grid is highlighted, it will
           operate only inside the marked area.  Pressing DownArrow inside the bitmap window has the same effect.

       Rotate Right
           This  command rotates the bitmap image 90 degrees to the right (clockwise.)  If a marked area of the grid
           is highlighted, it will operate only inside the marked area.  Pressing R inside the bitmap window has the
           same effect.

       Point
           This command will change the grid squares underneath the mouse pointer if a mouse button is being pressed
           down.  If you drag the mouse button continuously, the line may not be continuous, depending on the  speed
           of your system and frequency of mouse motion events.

       Curve
           This command will change the grid squares underneath the mouse pointer if a mouse button is being pressed
           down.  If you drag the mouse button continuously, it will make sure that the line is continuous.  If your
           system is slow or bitmap receives very few mouse motion events, it might behave quite strangely.

       Line
           This  command  will change the gird squares in a line between two squares.  Once you press a mouse button
           in the grid window, bitmap will highlight the line from the square where the mouse button  was  initially
           pressed  to  the square where the mouse pointer is located.  By releasing the mouse button you will cause
           the change to take effect, and the highlighted line will disappear.

       Rectangle
           This command will change the gird squares in a rectangle between two squares.  Once  you  press  a  mouse
           button in the grid window, bitmap will highlight the rectangle from the square where the mouse button was
           initially pressed to the square where the mouse pointer is located.  By releasing the  mouse  button  you
           will cause the change to take effect, and the highlighted rectangle will disappear.

       Filled Rectangle
           This  command  is identical to Rectangle, except at the end the rectangle will be filled rather than out‐
           lined.

       Circle
           This command will change the gird squares in a circle between two squares.  Once you press a mouse button
           in the grid window, bitmap will highlight the circle from the square where the mouse button was initially
           pressed to the square where the mouse pointer is located.  By releasing the mouse button you  will  cause
           the change to take effect, and the highlighted circle will disappear.

       Filled Circle
           This command is identical to Circle, except at the end the circle will be filled rather than outlined.

       Flood Fill
           This  command  will  flood  fill  the  connected  area underneath the mouse pointer when you click on the
           desired square.  Diagonally adjacent squares are not considered to be connected.

       Set Hot Spot
           This command designates one square in the grid as the hot spot if this bitmap image is  to  be  used  for
           defining  a  cursor.  Pressing a mouse button in the desired square will cause a diamond shape to be dis‐
           played.

       Clear Hot Spot
           This command removes any designated hot spot from the bitmap image.

       Undo
           This command will undo the last executed command.  It has depth one, that is, pressing  Undo  after  Undo
           will undo itself.

FILE MENU
       The  File menu commands can be accessed by pressing the File button and selecting the appropriate menu entry,
       or by pressing Ctrl key with another key.  These commands deal with files and global bitmap parameters,  such
       as size, basename, filename etc.

       New This  command  will clear the editing area and prompt for the name of the new file to be edited.  It will
           not load in the new file.

       Load
           This command is used to load a new bitmap file into the bitmap editor.  If the current image has not been
           saved,  user will be asked whether to save or ignore the changes.  The editor can edit only one file at a
           time.  If you need interactive editing, run a number of editors  and  use  cut  and  paste  mechanism  as
           described below.

       Insert
           This command is used to insert a bitmap file into the image being currently edited.  After being prompted
           for the filename, click inside the grid window and drag the outlined rectangle to the location where  you
           want to insert the new file.

       Save
           This  command  will  save  the bitmap image.  It will not prompt for the filename unless it is said to be
           <none>.  If you leave the filename undesignated or -, the output will be piped to stdout.

       Save As
           This command will save the bitmap image after prompting for a new filename.  It should  be  used  if  you
           want to change the filename.

       Resize
           This  command is used to resize the editing area to the new number of pixels.  The size should be entered
           in the WIDTHxHEIGHT format.  The information in the image being edited will not be lost  unless  the  new
           size is smaller that the current image size.  The editor was not designed to edit huge files.

       Rescale
           This command is used to rescale the editing area to the new width and height.  The size should be entered
           in the WIDTHxHEIGHT format.  It will not do antialiasing and information will be lost if you  rescale  to
           the smaller sizes.  Feel free to add you own algorithms for better rescaling.

       Filename
           This  command  is  used to change the filename without changing the basename nor saving the file.  If you
           specify - for a filename, the output will be piped to stdout.

       Basename
           This command is used to change the basename, if a different one from the specified filename is desired.

       Quit
           This command will terminate the bitmap application.  If the file was not saved, user will be prompted and
           asked whether to save the image or not.  This command is preferred over killing the process.

EDIT MENU
       The  Edit menu commands can be accessed by pressing the Edit button and selecting the appropriate menu entry,
       or by pressing Meta key with another key.  These commands deal with editing facilities such  as  grid,  axes,
       zooming, cut and paste, etc.

       Image
           This command will display the image being edited and its inverse in its actual size in a separate window.
           The window can be moved away to continue with editing.  Pressing the left mouse button in the image  win‐
           dow will cause it to disappear from the screen.

       Grid
           This  command controls the grid in the editing area.  If the grid spacing is below the value specified by
           gridTolerance resource (8 by default), the grid will be automatically turned off.  It can be enforced  by
           explicitly activating this command.

       Dashed
           This  command  controls the stipple for drawing the grid lines.  The stipple specified by dashes resource
           can be turned on or off by activating this command.

       Axes
           This command controls the highlighting of the main axes of the image being edited.  The actual lines  are
           not  part  of the image.  They are provided to aid user when constructing symmetrical images, or whenever
           having the main axes highlighted helps your editing.

       Stippled
           This command controls the stippling of the highlighted areas of the bitmap image.  The stipple  specified
           by stipple resource can be turned on or off by activating this command.

       Proportional
           This  command  controls  the  proportional mode.  If the proportional mode is on, width and height of all
           image squares are forced to be equal, regardless of the proportions of the bitmap window.

       Zoom
           This command controls the zoom mode.  If there is a marked area of the image  already  displayed,  bitmap
           will automatically zoom into it.  Otherwise, user will have to highlight an area to be edited in the zoom
           mode and bitmap will automatically switch into it.  One can use all the editing commands and other utili‐
           ties in the zoom mode.  When you zoom out, undo command will undo the whole zoom session.

       Cut This commands cuts the contents of the highlighted image area into the internal cut and paste buffer.

       Copy
           This command copies the contents of the highlighted image area into the internal cut and paste buffer.

       Paste
           This  command  will check if there are any other bitmap applications with a highlighted image area, or if
           there is something in the internal cut and paste buffer and copy it to the image.  To  place  the  copied
           image, click in the editing window and drag the outlined image to the position where you want to place i,
           and then release the button.

CUT AND PASTE
       Bitmap supports two cut and paste mechanisms; the internal cut and paste and the global X selection  cut  and
       paste.   The  internal  cut  and paste is used when executing copy and move drawing commands and also cut and
       copy commands from the edit menu.  The global X selection cut and paste is used whenever  there  is  a  high‐
       lighted area of a bitmap image displayed anywhere on the screen.  To copy a part of image from another bitmap
       editor simply highlight the desired area by using the Mark command or pressing the shift key and dragging the
       area with the left mouse button.  When the selected area becomes highlighted, any other applications (such as
       xterm, etc.) that use primary selection will discard their selection values and unhighlight  the  appropriate
       information.   Now, use the Paste command for the Edit menu or control mouse button to copy the selected part
       of image into another (or the same) bitmap application.  If you attempt to do this without  a  visible  high‐
       lighted  image  area,  the  bitmap will fall back to the internal cut and paste buffer and paste whatever was
       there stored at the moment.

WIDGETS
       Below is the widget structure of the bitmap application.  Indentation indicates hierarchical structure.   The
       widget class name is given first, followed by the widget instance name.  All widgets except the bitmap widget
       are from the standard Athena widget set.

            Bitmap bitmap
                 TransientShell image
                      Box box
                           Label normalImage
                           Label invertedImage
                 TransientShell input
                      Dialog dialog
                           Command okay
                           Command cancel
                 TransientShell error
                      Dialog dialog
                           Command abort
                           Command retry
                 TransientShell qsave
                      Dialog dialog
                           Command yes
                           Command no
                           Command cancel
                 Paned parent
                      Form formy
                           MenuButton fileButton
                           SimpleMenu fileMenu
                                SmeBSB  new
                                SmeBSB  load
                                SmeBSB  insert
                                SmeBSB  save
                                SmeBSB  saveAs
                                SmeBSB  resize
                                SmeBSB  rescale
                                SmeBSB  filename
                                SmeBSB  basename
                                SmeLine line
                                SmeBSB  quit
                           MenuButton editButton
                           SimpleMenu editMenu
                                SmeBSB  image
                                SmeBSB  grid
                                SmeBSB  dashed
                                SmeBSB  axes
                                SmeBSB  stippled
                                SmeBSB  proportional
                                SmeBSB  zoom
                                SmeLine line
                                SmeBSB  cut
                                SmeBSB  copy
                                SmeBSB  paste
                           Label status
                      Pane pane
                           Bitmap bitmap
                           Form form
                                Command clear
                                Command set
                                Command invert
                                Toggle  mark
                                Command unmark
                                Toggle  copy
                                Toggle  move
                                Command flipHoriz
                                Command up
                                Command flipVert
                                Command left
                                Command fold
                                Command right
                                Command rotateLeft
                                Command down
                                Command rotateRight
                                Toggle  point
                                Toggle  curve
                                Toggle  line
                                Toggle  rectangle
                                Toggle  filledRectangle
                                Toggle  circle
                                Toggle  filledCircle
                                Toggle  floodFill
                                Toggle  setHotSpot
                                Command clearHotSpot
                                Command undo

COLORS
       If you would like bitmap to be viewable in color, include the following in the #ifdef COLOR  section  of  the
       file you read with xrdb:

       *customization:                 -color

       This will cause bitmap to pick up the colors in the app-defaults color customization file:

           /etc/X11/app-defaults/Bitmap-color


BITMAP WIDGET
       Bitmap  widget  is  a stand-alone widget for editing raster images.  It is not designed to edit large images,
       although it may be used in that purpose as well.  It can be freely incorporated with other  applications  and
       used as a standard editing tool.  The following are the resources provided by the bitmap widget.

       Bitmap Widget

       Header file         Bitmap.h
       Class               bitmapWidgetClass
       Class Name          Bitmap
       Superclass          Bitmap


       All the Simple Widget resources plus ...

       Name            Class           Type            Default Value

       foreground      Foreground      Pixel           XtDefaultForeground
       highlight       Highlight       Pixel           XtDefaultForeground
       framing         Framing         Pixel           XtDefaultForeground
       gridTolerance   GridTolerance   Dimension       8
       size            Size            String          32x32
       dashed          Dashed          Boolean         True
       grid            Grid            Boolean         True
       stippled        Stippled        Boolean         True
       proportional    Proportional    Boolean         True
       axes            Axes            Boolean         False
       squareWidth     SquareWidth     Dimension       16
       squareHeight    SquareHeight    Dimension       16
       margin          Margin          Dimension       16
       xHot            XHot            Position        NotSet (-1)
       yHot            YHot            Position        NotSet (-1)
       button1Function Button1Function DrawingFunction Set
       button2Function Button2Function DrawingFunction Invert
       button3Function Button3Function DrawingFunction Clear
       button4Function Button4Function DrawingFunction Invert
       button5Function Button5Function DrawingFunction Invert
       filename        Filename        String          None ("")
       basename        Basename        String          None ("")


AUTHOR
       Davor Matic, MIT X Consortium



X Version 11                                        bitmap 1.0.7                                           BITMAP(1)
