BZMORE(1)                                      General Commands Manual                                     BZMORE(1)



NAME
       bzmore, bzless - file perusal filter for crt viewing of bzip2 compressed text

SYNOPSIS
       bzmore [ name ...  ]
       bzless [ name ...  ]

NOTE
       In the following description, bzless and less can be used interchangeably with bzmore and more.

DESCRIPTION
       Bzmore  is  a  filter which allows examination of compressed or plain text files one screenful at a time on a
       soft-copy terminal.  bzmore works on files compressed with bzip2 and also on uncompressed files.  If  a  file
       does not exist, bzmore looks for a file of the same name with the addition of a .bz2 suffix.

       Bzmore normally pauses after each screenful, printing --More-- at the bottom of the screen.  If the user then
       types a carriage return, one more line is displayed.  If the user hits a space,  another  screenful  is  dis‐
       played.  Other possibilities are enumerated later.

       Bzmore  looks  in  the  file /etc/termcap to determine terminal characteristics, and to determine the default
       window size.  On a terminal capable of displaying 24 lines, the default  window  size  is  22  lines.   Other
       sequences  which may be typed when bzmore pauses, and their effects, are as follows (i is an optional integer
       argument, defaulting to 1) :

       i<space>
              display i more lines, (or another screenful if no argument is given)

       ^D     display 11 more lines (a ``scroll'').  If i is given, then the scroll size is set to i.

       d      same as ^D (control-D)

       iz     same as typing a space except that i, if present, becomes the new window size.  Note that  the  window
              size reverts back to the default at the end of the current file.

       is     skip i lines and print a screenful of lines

       if     skip i screenfuls and print a screenful of lines

       q or Q quit reading the current file; go on to the next (if any)

       e or q When the prompt --More--(Next file: file) is printed, this command causes bzmore to exit.

       s      When the prompt --More--(Next file: file) is printed, this command causes bzmore to skip the next file
              and continue.

       =      Display the current line number.

       i/expr search for the i-th occurrence of the regular expression expr.  If the pattern is  not  found,  bzmore
              goes on to the next file (if any).  Otherwise, a screenful is displayed, starting two lines before the
              place where the expression was found.  The user's erase and kill characters may be used  to  edit  the
              regular expression.  Erasing back past the first column cancels the search command.

       in     search for the i-th occurrence of the last regular expression entered.

       !command
              invoke a shell with command.  The character `!' in "command" are replaced with the previous shell com‐
              mand.  The sequence "\!" is replaced by "!".

       :q or :Q
              quit reading the current file; go on to the next (if any) (same as q or Q).

       .      (dot) repeat the previous command.

       The commands take effect immediately, i.e., it is not necessary to type a carriage return.  Up  to  the  time
       when  the command character itself is given, the user may hit the line kill character to cancel the numerical
       argument being formed.  In addition, the user may hit the erase character to redisplay the --More-- message.

       At any time when output is being sent to the terminal, the user can hit the quit  key  (normally  control-\).
       Bzmore  will stop sending output, and will display the usual --More-- prompt.  The user may then enter one of
       the above commands in the normal manner.  Unfortunately, some output is lost when this is done,  due  to  the
       fact that any characters waiting in the terminal's output queue are flushed when the quit signal occurs.

       The  terminal is set to noecho mode by this program so that the output can be continuous.  What you type will
       thus not show on your terminal, except for the / and !  commands.

       If the standard output is not a teletype, then bzmore acts just like bzcat, except that a header  is  printed
       before each file.

FILES
       /etc/termcap        Terminal data base

SEE ALSO
       more(1), less(1), bzip2(1), bzdiff(1), bzgrep(1)



                                                                                                           BZMORE(1)
