CHACL(1)                                        Access Control Lists                                        CHACL(1)



NAME
       chacl - change the access control list of a file or directory

SYNOPSIS
       chacl acl pathname...
       chacl -b acl dacl pathname...
       chacl -d dacl pathname...
       chacl -R pathname...
       chacl -D pathname...
       chacl -B pathname...
       chacl -l pathname...
       chacl -r pathname...

DESCRIPTION
       chacl  is an IRIX-compatibility command, and is maintained for those users who are familiar with its use from
       either XFS or IRIX.  Refer to the SEE ALSO section below for  a  description  of  tools  which  conform  more
       closely to the (withdrawn draft) POSIX 1003.1e standard which describes Access Control Lists (ACLs).

       chacl changes the ACL(s) for a file or directory.  The ACL(s) specified are applied to each file in the path‐
       name arguments.

       Each ACL is a string which is interpreted using the acl_from_text(3) routine.  These strings are made  up  of
       comma separated clauses each of which is of the form, tag:name:perm.  Where tag can be:

       "user" (or "u")
              indicating that the entry is a user ACL entry.

       "group" (or "g")
              indicating that the entry is a group ACL entry.

       "other" (or "o")
              indicating that the entry is an other ACL entry.

       "mask" (or "m")
              indicating that the entry is a mask ACL entry.

       name is a string which is the user or group name for the ACL entry.  A null name in a user or group ACL entry
       indicates the file's owner or file's group.  perm is the string "rwx"  where  each  of  the  entries  may  be
       replaced by a "-" indicating no access of that type, e.g. "r-x", "--x", "---".

OPTIONS
       -b     Indicates  that  there  are  two  ACLs  to change, the first is the file access ACL and the second the
              directory default ACL.

       -d     Used to set only the default ACL of a directory.

       -R     Removes the file access ACL only.

       -D     Removes directory default ACL only.

       -B     Remove all ACLs.

       -l     Lists the access ACL and possibly the default ACL associated with the specified files or  directories.
              This option was added during the Linux port of XFS, and is not IRIX compatible.

       -r     Set  the  access  ACL  recursively for each subtree rooted at pathname(s).  This option was also added
              during the Linux port of XFS, and is not compatible with IRIX.

EXAMPLES
       A minimum ACL:

         chacl u::rwx,g::r-x,o::r-- file

       The file ACL is set so that the file's owner has "rwx", the file's group has read  and  execute,  and  others
       have read only access to the file.

       An  ACL that is not a minimum ACL, that is, one that specifies a user or group other than the file's owner or
       owner's group, must contain a mask entry:

         chacl u::rwx,g::r-x,o::r--,u:bob:r--,m::r-x file1 file2

       To set the default and access ACLs on newdir to be the same as on olddir, you could type:

         chacl -b `chacl -l olddir | \
             sed -e 's/.*\[//' -e 's#/# #' -e 's/]$//'` newdir

CAUTIONS
       chacl can replace the existing ACL.  To add or delete entries, you must first do chacl -l to get the existing
       ACL, and use the output to form the arguments to chacl.

       Changing  the  permission  bits  of a file will change the file access ACL settings (see chmod(1)).  However,
       file creation mode masks (see umask(1)) will not affect the access ACL settings of files created using direc‐
       tory default ACLs.

       ACLs  are  filesystem  extended attributes and hence are not typically archived or restored using the conven‐
       tional archiving utilities.  See attr(5) for more information about extended attributes  and  see  xfsdump(8)
       for a method of backing them up under XFS.

SEE ALSO
       getfacl(1), setfacl(1), chmod(1), umask(1), acl_from_text(3), acl(5), xfsdump(8)



September 2001                                   ACL File Utilities                                         CHACL(1)
