CHATTR(1)                                      General Commands Manual                                     CHATTR(1)



NAME
       chattr - change file attributes on a Linux file system

SYNOPSIS
       chattr [ -RVf ] [ -v version ] [ mode ] files...

DESCRIPTION
       chattr changes the file attributes on a Linux file system.

       The format of a symbolic mode is +-=[acdeijstuACDST].

       The  operator  `+'  causes  the  selected attributes to be added to the existing attributes of the files; `-'
       causes them to be removed; and `=' causes them to be the only attributes that the files have.

       The letters `acdeijstuACDST' select the new attributes for the files: append only  (a),  compressed  (c),  no
       dump  (d),  extent format (e), immutable (i), data journalling (j), secure deletion (s), no tail-merging (t),
       undeletable (u), no atime updates (A), no copy on write (C), synchronous directory updates  (D),  synchronous
       updates (S), and top of directory hierarchy (T).

       The  following attributes are read-only, and may be listed by lsattr(1) but not modified by chattr: huge file
       (h), compression error (E), indexed directory (I), compression raw access (X), and compressed dirty file (Z).

OPTIONS
       -R     Recursively change attributes of directories and their contents.

       -V     Be verbose with chattr's output and print the program version.

       -f     Suppress most error messages.

       -v version
              Set the file's version/generation number.

ATTRIBUTES
       When a file with the 'A' attribute set is accessed, its atime record is not modified.  This avoids a  certain
       amount of disk I/O for laptop systems.

       A  file  with  the  `a'  attribute  set can only be open in append mode for writing.  Only the superuser or a
       process possessing the CAP_LINUX_IMMUTABLE capability can set or clear this attribute.

       A file with the `c' attribute set is automatically compressed on the disk by the kernel.  A  read  from  this
       file returns uncompressed data.  A write to this file compresses data before storing them on the disk.  Note:
       please make sure to read the bugs and limitations section at the end of this document.

       A file with the 'C' attribute set will not be subject to copy-on-write updates.  This flag is only  supported
       on  file  systems  which perform copy-on-write.  (Note: For btrfs, the 'C' flag should be set on new or empty
       files.  If it is set on a file which already has data blocks, it is undefined when the blocks assigned to the
       file  will  be fully stable.  If the 'C' flag is set on a directory, it will have no effect on the directory,
       but new files created in that directory will the No_COW attribute.)

       When a directory with the `D' attribute set is modified, the changes are written synchronously on  the  disk;
       this is equivalent to the `dirsync' mount option applied to a subset of the files.

       A file with the `d' attribute set is not candidate for backup when the dump(8) program is run.

       The  'E'  attribute  is used by the experimental compression patches to indicate that a compressed file has a
       compression error.  It may not be set or reset using chattr(1), although it can be displayed by lsattr(1).

       The 'e' attribute indicates that the file is using extents for mapping the blocks on disk.   It  may  not  be
       removed using chattr(1).

       The 'I' attribute is used by the htree code to indicate that a directory is being indexed using hashed trees.
       It may not be set or reset using chattr(1), although it can be displayed by lsattr(1).

       The 'h' attribute indicates the file is storing its blocks in units of the filesystem blocksize instead of in
       units  of  sectors,  and  means  that the file is (or at one time was) larger than 2TB.  It may not be set or
       reset using chattr(1), although it can be displayed by lsattr(1).

       A file with the `i' attribute cannot be modified: it cannot be deleted or renamed, no link can be created  to
       this  file  and  no  data  can  be  written  to  the  file.   Only  the superuser or a process possessing the
       CAP_LINUX_IMMUTABLE capability can set or clear this attribute.

       A file with the `j' attribute has all of its data written to the ext3 journal before  being  written  to  the
       file  itself,  if  the  filesystem  is mounted with the "data=ordered" or "data=writeback" options.  When the
       filesystem is mounted with the "data=journal" option all file data is already journalled and  this  attribute
       has  no  effect.  Only the superuser or a process possessing the CAP_SYS_RESOURCE capability can set or clear
       this attribute.

       When a file with the `s' attribute set is deleted, its blocks are zeroed and written back to the disk.  Note:
       please make sure to read the bugs and limitations section at the end of this document.

       When  a  file with the `S' attribute set is modified, the changes are written synchronously on the disk; this
       is equivalent to the `sync' mount option applied to a subset of the files.

       A directory with the 'T' attribute will be deemed to be the top of directory hierarchies for the purposes  of
       the  Orlov block allocator.  This is a hint to the block allocator used by ext3 and ext4 that the subdirecto‐
       ries under this directory are not related, and thus should be spread apart  for  allocation  purposes.    For
       example  it  is  a  very  good  idea  to set the 'T' attribute on the /home directory, so that /home/john and
       /home/mary are placed into separate block groups.  For directories where this attribute is not set, the Orlov
       block allocator will try to group subdirectories closer together where possible.

       A file with the 't' attribute will not have a partial block fragment at the end of the file merged with other
       files (for those filesystems which support tail-merging).  This is necessary for applications  such  as  LILO
       which  read the filesystem directly, and which don't understand tail-merged files.  Note: As of this writing,
       the ext2 or ext3 filesystems do not (yet, except in very experimental patches) support tail-merging.

       When a file with the `u' attribute set is deleted, its contents are saved.  This allows the user to  ask  for
       its undeletion.  Note: please make sure to read the bugs and limitations section at the end of this document.

       The  'X'  attribute is used by the experimental compression patches to indicate that a raw contents of a com‐
       pressed file can be accessed directly.  It currently may not be set or reset using chattr(1), although it can
       be displayed by lsattr(1).

       The 'Z' attribute is used by the experimental compression patches to indicate a compressed file is dirty.  It
       may not be set or reset using chattr(1), although it can be displayed by lsattr(1).

AUTHOR
       chattr was written by Remy Card <Remy.Card@linux.org>.  It is currently being  maintained  by  Theodore  Ts'o
       <tytso@alum.mit.edu>.

BUGS AND LIMITATIONS
       The  `c',  's',  and `u' attributes are not honored by the ext2, ext3, and ext4 filesystems as implemented in
       the current mainline Linux kernels.

       The `j' option is only useful if the filesystem is mounted as ext3.

       The `D' option is only useful on Linux kernel 2.5.19 and later.

AVAILABILITY
       chattr is part of the e2fsprogs package and is available from http://e2fsprogs.sourceforge.net.

SEE ALSO
       lsattr(1)



E2fsprogs version 1.42.9                            February 2014                                          CHATTR(1)
