CONFIG_DATA(1)                            Perl Programmers Reference Guide                            CONFIG_DATA(1)



NAME
       config_data - Query or change configuration of Perl modules

SYNOPSIS
         # Get config/feature values
         config_data --module Foo::Bar --feature bazzable
         config_data --module Foo::Bar --config magic_number

         # Set config/feature values
         config_data --module Foo::Bar --set_feature bazzable=1
         config_data --module Foo::Bar --set_config magic_number=42

         # Print a usage message
         config_data --help

DESCRIPTION
       The "config_data" tool provides a command-line interface to the configuration of Perl modules.  By
       "configuration", we mean something akin to "user preferences" or "local settings".  This is a formalization
       and abstraction of the systems that people like Andreas Koenig ("CPAN::Config"), Jon Swartz
       ("HTML::Mason::Config"), Andy Wardley ("Template::Config"), and Larry Wall (perl's own Config.pm) have
       developed independently.

       The configuration system employed here was developed in the context of "Module::Build".  Under this system,
       configuration information for a module "Foo", for example, is stored in a module called "Foo::ConfigData") (I
       would have called it "Foo::Config", but that was taken by all those other systems mentioned in the previous
       paragraph...).  These "...::ConfigData" modules contain the configuration data, as well as publicly
       accessible methods for querying and setting (yes, actually re-writing) the configuration data.  The
       "config_data" script (whose docs you are currently reading) is merely a front-end for those methods.  If you
       wish, you may create alternate front-ends.

       The two types of data that may be stored are called "config" values and "feature" values.  A "config" value
       may be any perl scalar, including references to complex data structures.  It must, however, be serializable
       using "Data::Dumper".  A "feature" is a boolean (1 or 0) value.

USAGE
       This script functions as a basic getter/setter wrapper around the configuration of a single module.  On the
       command line, specify which module's configuration you're interested in, and pass options to get or set
       "config" or "feature" values.  The following options are supported:

       module
           Specifies the name of the module to configure (required).

       feature
           When passed the name of a "feature", shows its value.  The value will be 1 if the feature is enabled, 0
           if the feature is not enabled, or empty if the feature is unknown.  When no feature name is supplied, the
           names and values of all known features will be shown.

       config
           When passed the name of a "config" entry, shows its value.  The value will be displayed using
           "Data::Dumper" (or similar) as perl code.  When no config name is supplied, the names and values of all
           known config entries will be shown.

       set_feature
           Sets the given "feature" to the given boolean value.  Specify the value as either 1 or 0.

       set_config
           Sets the given "config" entry to the given value.

       eval
           If the "--eval" option is used, the values in "set_config" will be evaluated as perl code before being
           stored.  This allows moderately complicated data structures to be stored.  For really complicated
           structures, you probably shouldn't use this command-line interface, just use the Perl API instead.

       help
           Prints a help message, including a few examples, and exits.

AUTHOR
       Ken Williams, kwilliams@cpan.org

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 1999, Ken Williams.  All rights reserved.

       This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

SEE ALSO
       Module::Build(3), perl(1).



perl v5.18.2                                         2016-03-01                                       CONFIG_DATA(1)
