CREATEDB(1)                                PostgreSQL 9.3.16 Documentation                               CREATEDB(1)



NAME
       createdb - create a new PostgreSQL database

SYNOPSIS
       createdb [connection-option...] [option...] [dbname [description]]

DESCRIPTION
       createdb creates a new PostgreSQL database.

       Normally, the database user who executes this command becomes the owner of the new database. However, a
       different owner can be specified via the -O option, if the executing user has appropriate privileges.

       createdb is a wrapper around the SQL command CREATE DATABASE (CREATE_DATABASE(7)). There is no effective
       difference between creating databases via this utility and via other methods for accessing the server.

OPTIONS
       createdb accepts the following command-line arguments:

       dbname
           Specifies the name of the database to be created. The name must be unique among all PostgreSQL databases
           in this cluster. The default is to create a database with the same name as the current system user.

       description
           Specifies a comment to be associated with the newly created database.

       -D tablespace, --tablespace=tablespace
           Specifies the default tablespace for the database. (This name is processed as a double-quoted
           identifier.)

       -e, --echo
           Echo the commands that createdb generates and sends to the server.

       -E encoding, --encoding=encoding
           Specifies the character encoding scheme to be used in this database. The character sets supported by the
           PostgreSQL server are described in Section 22.3.1, “Supported Character Sets”, in the documentation.

       -l locale, --locale=locale
           Specifies the locale to be used in this database. This is equivalent to specifying both --lc-collate and
           --lc-ctype.

       --lc-collate=locale
           Specifies the LC_COLLATE setting to be used in this database.

       --lc-ctype=locale
           Specifies the LC_CTYPE setting to be used in this database.

       -O owner, --owner=owner
           Specifies the database user who will own the new database. (This name is processed as a double-quoted
           identifier.)

       -T template, --template=template
           Specifies the template database from which to build this database. (This name is processed as a
           double-quoted identifier.)

       -V, --version
           Print the createdb version and exit.

       -?, --help
           Show help about createdb command line arguments, and exit.

       The options -D, -l, -E, -O, and -T correspond to options of the underlying SQL command CREATE DATABASE
       (CREATE_DATABASE(7)); see there for more information about them.

       createdb also accepts the following command-line arguments for connection parameters:

       -h host, --host=host
           Specifies the host name of the machine on which the server is running. If the value begins with a slash,
           it is used as the directory for the Unix domain socket.

       -p port, --port=port
           Specifies the TCP port or the local Unix domain socket file extension on which the server is listening
           for connections.

       -U username, --username=username
           User name to connect as.

       -w, --no-password
           Never issue a password prompt. If the server requires password authentication and a password is not
           available by other means such as a .pgpass file, the connection attempt will fail. This option can be
           useful in batch jobs and scripts where no user is present to enter a password.

       -W, --password
           Force createdb to prompt for a password before connecting to a database.

           This option is never essential, since createdb will automatically prompt for a password if the server
           demands password authentication. However, createdb will waste a connection attempt finding out that the
           server wants a password. In some cases it is worth typing -W to avoid the extra connection attempt.

       --maintenance-db=dbname
           Specifies the name of the database to connect to when creating the new database. If not specified, the
           postgres database will be used; if that does not exist (or if it is the name of the new database being
           created), template1 will be used.

ENVIRONMENT
       PGDATABASE
           If set, the name of the database to create, unless overridden on the command line.

       PGHOST, PGPORT, PGUSER
           Default connection parameters.  PGUSER also determines the name of the database to create, if it is not
           specified on the command line or by PGDATABASE.

       This utility, like most other PostgreSQL utilities, also uses the environment variables supported by libpq
       (see Section 31.14, “Environment Variables”, in the documentation).

DIAGNOSTICS
       In case of difficulty, see CREATE DATABASE (CREATE_DATABASE(7)) and psql(1) for discussions of potential
       problems and error messages. The database server must be running at the targeted host. Also, any default
       connection settings and environment variables used by the libpq front-end library will apply.

EXAMPLES
       To create the database demo using the default database server:

           $ createdb demo

       To create the database demo using the server on host eden, port 5000, using the LATIN1 encoding scheme with a
       look at the underlying command:

           $ createdb -p 5000 -h eden -E LATIN1 -e demo
           CREATE DATABASE demo ENCODING 'LATIN1';

SEE ALSO
       dropdb(1), CREATE DATABASE (CREATE_DATABASE(7))



PostgreSQL 9.3.16                                       2017                                             CREATEDB(1)
