curl(1)                                              Curl Manual                                             curl(1)



NAME
       curl - transfer a URL

SYNOPSIS
       curl [options] [URL...]

DESCRIPTION
       curl  is  a tool to transfer data from or to a server, using one of the supported protocols (DICT, FILE, FTP,
       FTPS, GOPHER, HTTP, HTTPS, IMAP, IMAPS, LDAP, LDAPS, POP3, POP3S, RTMP, RTSP, SCP, SFTP, SMTP, SMTPS,  TELNET
       and TFTP).  The command is designed to work without user interaction.

       curl  offers  a  busload of useful tricks like proxy support, user authentication, FTP upload, HTTP post, SSL
       connections, cookies, file transfer resume, Metalink, and more. As you will see below, the number of features
       will make your head spin!

       curl is powered by libcurl for all transfer-related features. See libcurl(3) for details.

URL
       The URL syntax is protocol-dependent. You'll find a detailed description in RFC 3986.

       You can specify multiple URLs or parts of URLs by writing part sets within braces as in:

        http://site.{one,two,three}.com

       or you can get sequences of alphanumeric series by using [] as in:

        ftp://ftp.numericals.com/file[1-100].txt
        ftp://ftp.numericals.com/file[001-100].txt    (with leading zeros)
        ftp://ftp.letters.com/file[a-z].txt

       Nested sequences are not supported, but you can use several ones next to each other:

        http://any.org/archive[1996-1999]/vol[1-4]/part{a,b,c}.html

       You  can  specify  any amount of URLs on the command line. They will be fetched in a sequential manner in the
       specified order.

       You can specify a step counter for the ranges to get every Nth number or letter:

        http://www.numericals.com/file[1-100:10].txt
        http://www.letters.com/file[a-z:2].txt

       If you specify URL without protocol:// prefix, curl will attempt to guess what protocol you  might  want.  It
       will  then  default  to HTTP but try other protocols based on often-used host name prefixes. For example, for
       host names starting with "ftp." curl will assume you want to speak FTP.

       curl will do its best to use what you pass to it as a URL. It is not trying to validate it as a syntactically
       correct URL by any means but is instead very liberal with what it accepts.

       curl will attempt to re-use connections for multiple file transfers, so that getting many files from the same
       server will not do multiple connects / handshakes. This improves speed. Of course this is only done on  files
       specified on a single command line and cannot be used between separate curl invokes.

PROGRESS METER
       curl  normally displays a progress meter during operations, indicating the amount of transferred data, trans‐
       fer speeds and estimated time left, etc.

       curl displays this data to the terminal by default, so if you invoke curl to do an operation and it is  about
       to write data to the terminal, it disables the progress meter as otherwise it would mess up the output mixing
       progress meter and response data.

       If you want a progress meter for HTTP POST or PUT requests, you need to redirect the  response  output  to  a
       file, using shell redirect (>), -o [file] or similar.

       It is not the same case for FTP upload as that operation does not spit out any response data to the terminal.

       If you prefer a progress "bar" instead of the regular meter, -# is your friend.

OPTIONS
       Options start with one or two dashes. Many of the options require an addition value next to it.

       The  short  "single-dash" form of the options, -d for example, may be used with or without a space between it
       and its value, although a space is a recommended separator. The long "double-dash" form, --data for  example,
       requires a space between it and its value.

       Short  version options that don't need any additional values can be used immediately next to each other, like
       for example you can specify all the options -O, -L and -v at once as -OLv.

       In general, all boolean options are enabled with --option and yet again disabled with --no-option.  That  is,
       you  use  the  exact same option name but prefix it with "no-". However, in this list we mostly only list and
       show the --option version of them. (This concept with --no options  was  added  in  7.19.0.  Previously  most
       options were toggled on/off on repeated use of the same command line option.)

       -#, --progress-bar
              Make  curl  display  progress  as  a  simple progress bar instead of the standard, more informational,
              meter.

       -0, --http1.0
              (HTTP) Tells curl to use HTTP version 1.0 instead of using its internally preferred: HTTP 1.1.

       --http1.1
              (HTTP) Tells curl to use HTTP version 1.1. This is the internal default version. (Added in 7.33.0)

       --http2.0
              (HTTP) Tells curl to issue its requests using HTTP 2.0. This requires that the underlying libcurl  was
              built to support it. (Added in 7.33.0)

       -1, --tlsv1
              (SSL) Forces curl to use TLS version 1 when negotiating with a remote TLS server.

       -2, --sslv2
              (SSL) Forces curl to use SSL version 2 when negotiating with a remote SSL server.

       -3, --sslv3
              (SSL) Forces curl to use SSL version 3 when negotiating with a remote SSL server.

       -4, --ipv4
              If  curl  is  capable of resolving an address to multiple IP versions (which it is if it is IPv6-capa‐
              ble), this option tells curl to resolve names to IPv4 addresses only.

       -6, --ipv6
              If curl is capable of resolving an address to multiple IP versions (which it is if  it  is  IPv6-capa‐
              ble), this option tells curl to resolve names to IPv6 addresses only.

       -a, --append
              (FTP/SFTP)  When  used in an upload, this will tell curl to append to the target file instead of over‐
              writing it. If the file doesn't exist, it will be created.  Note that this flag is ignored by some SSH
              servers (including OpenSSH).

       -A, --user-agent <agent string>
              (HTTP)  Specify  the  User-Agent  string to send to the HTTP server. Some badly done CGIs fail if this
              field isn't set to "Mozilla/4.0". To encode blanks in the string,  surround  the  string  with  single
              quote marks. This can also be set with the -H, --header option of course.

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       --anyauth
              (HTTP)  Tells  curl  to  figure  out  authentication method by itself, and use the most secure one the
              remote site claims to support. This is done by first doing a request and checking  the  response-head‐
              ers,  thus  possibly  inducing an extra network round-trip. This is used instead of setting a specific
              authentication method, which you can do with --basic, --digest, --ntlm, and --negotiate.

              Note that using --anyauth is not recommended if you do uploads from stdin, since it may  require  data
              to  be  sent twice and then the client must be able to rewind. If the need should arise when uploading
              from stdin, the upload operation will fail.

       -b, --cookie <name=data>
              (HTTP) Pass the data to the HTTP server as a cookie. It is supposedly  the  data  previously  received
              from  the  server  in  a  "Set-Cookie:"  line.   The  data  should  be  in  the  format "NAME1=VALUE1;
              NAME2=VALUE2".

              If no '=' symbol is used in the line, it is treated as a filename to use  to  read  previously  stored
              cookie  lines  from,  which should be used in this session if they match. Using this method also acti‐
              vates the "cookie parser" which will make curl record incoming cookies too,  which  may  be  handy  if
              you're  using  this in combination with the -L, --location option. The file format of the file to read
              cookies from should be plain HTTP headers or the Netscape/Mozilla cookie file format.

              NOTE that the file specified with -b, --cookie is only used as input. No cookies will be stored in the
              file.  To  store cookies, use the -c, --cookie-jar option or you could even save the HTTP headers to a
              file using -D, --dump-header!

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       -B, --use-ascii
              (FTP/LDAP) Enable ASCII transfer. For FTP, this can also be enforced by using an URL  that  ends  with
              ";type=A". This option causes data sent to stdout to be in text mode for win32 systems.

       --basic
              (HTTP)  Tells  curl  to  use HTTP Basic authentication. This is the default and this option is usually
              pointless, unless you use it to override a previously set option that sets a different  authentication
              method (such as --ntlm, --digest, or --negotiate).

       -c, --cookie-jar <file name>
              (HTTP)  Specify  to  which  file  you want curl to write all cookies after a completed operation. Curl
              writes all cookies previously read from a specified file as well as all cookies received  from  remote
              server(s).  If  no cookies are known, no file will be written. The file will be written using the Net‐
              scape cookie file format. If you set the file name to a single dash, "-", the cookies will be  written
              to stdout.

              This  command  line  option  will  activate  the cookie engine that makes curl record and use cookies.
              Another way to activate it is to use the -b, --cookie option.

              If the cookie jar can't be created or written to, the whole curl operation won't fail or  even  report
              an error clearly. Using -v will get a warning displayed, but that is the only visible feedback you get
              about this possibly lethal situation.

              If this option is used several times, the last specified file name will be used.

       -C, --continue-at <offset>
              Continue/Resume a previous file transfer at the given offset. The given offset is the exact number  of
              bytes that will be skipped, counting from the beginning of the source file before it is transferred to
              the destination.  If used with uploads, the FTP server command SIZE will not be used by curl.

              Use "-C -" to tell curl to automatically find out where/how to resume the transfer. It then  uses  the
              given output/input files to figure that out.

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       --ciphers <list of ciphers>
              (SSL)  Specifies  which  ciphers  to  use  in  the  connection. The list of ciphers must specify valid
              ciphers. Read up on SSL cipher list details on this URL: http://www.openssl.org/docs/apps/ciphers.html

              NSS ciphers are done differently than OpenSSL and GnuTLS. The full list of NSS ciphers is in the  NSS‐
              CipherSuite            entry            at            this           URL:           http://git.fedora‐
              hosted.org/cgit/mod_nss.git/plain/docs/mod_nss.html#Directives

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       --compressed
              (HTTP) Request a compressed response using one of the algorithms curl supports, and  save  the  uncom‐
              pressed  document.   If  this  option  is used and the server sends an unsupported encoding, curl will
              report an error.

       --connect-timeout <seconds>
              Maximum time in seconds that you allow the connection to the server to take.   This  only  limits  the
              connection  phase,  once  curl has connected this option is of no more use.  Since 7.32.0, this option
              accepts decimal values, but the actual timeout will decrease in  accuracy  as  the  specified  timeout
              increases in decimal precision. See also the -m, --max-time option.

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       --create-dirs
              When  used in conjunction with the -o option, curl will create the necessary local directory hierarchy
              as needed. This option creates the dirs mentioned with the -o option, nothing else.  If  the  -o  file
              name uses no dir or if the dirs it mentions already exist, no dir will be created.

              To create remote directories when using FTP or SFTP, try --ftp-create-dirs.

       --crlf (FTP) Convert LF to CRLF in upload. Useful for MVS (OS/390).

       --crlfile <file>
              (HTTPS/FTPS)  Provide a file using PEM format with a Certificate Revocation List that may specify peer
              certificates that are to be considered revoked.

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

              (Added in 7.19.7)

       -d, --data <data>
              (HTTP) Sends the specified data in a POST request to the HTTP server, in the same way that  a  browser
              does  when  a  user  has filled in an HTML form and presses the submit button. This will cause curl to
              pass the data to the server using the content-type application/x-www-form-urlencoded.  Compare to  -F,
              --form.

              -d, --data is the same as --data-ascii. To post data purely binary, you should instead use the --data-
              binary option. To URL-encode the value of a form field you may use --data-urlencode.

              If any of these options is used more than once on the same command line,  the  data  pieces  specified
              will  be merged together with a separating &-symbol. Thus, using '-d name=daniel -d skill=lousy' would
              generate a post chunk that looks like 'name=daniel&skill=lousy'.

              If you start the data with the letter @, the rest should be a file name to read the data from, or - if
              you  want  curl to read the data from stdin. Multiple files can also be specified. Posting data from a
              file named 'foobar' would thus be done with --data @foobar. When --data is told to read  from  a  file
              like that, carriage returns and newlines will be stripped out.

       -D, --dump-header <file>
              Write the protocol headers to the specified file.

              This option is handy to use when you want to store the headers that an HTTP site sends to you. Cookies
              from the headers could then be read in a second curl invocation by using the -b, --cookie option!  The
              -c, --cookie-jar option is however a better way to store cookies.

              When  used  in  FTP,  the  FTP server response lines are considered being "headers" and thus are saved
              there.

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.


       --data-ascii <data>
              See -d, --data.

       --data-binary <data>
              (HTTP) This posts data exactly as specified with no extra processing whatsoever.

              If you start the data with the letter @, the rest should be a filename.  Data is posted in  a  similar
              manner  as  --data-ascii does, except that newlines and carriage returns are preserved and conversions
              are never done.

              If this option is used several times, the ones following the first will append data  as  described  in
              -d, --data.

       --data-urlencode <data>
              (HTTP) This posts data, similar to the other --data options with the exception that this performs URL-
              encoding. (Added in 7.18.0)

              To be CGI-compliant, the <data> part should begin with a name followed by a separator  and  a  content
              specification. The <data> part can be passed to curl using one of the following syntaxes:

              content
                     This  will  make curl URL-encode the content and pass that on. Just be careful so that the con‐
                     tent doesn't contain any = or @ symbols, as that will then make the syntax  match  one  of  the
                     other cases below!

              =content
                     This  will  make  curl  URL-encode  the content and pass that on. The preceding = symbol is not
                     included in the data.

              name=content
                     This will make curl URL-encode the content part and pass that on. Note that the  name  part  is
                     expected to be URL-encoded already.

              @filename
                     This  will  make  curl  load data from the given file (including any newlines), URL-encode that
                     data and pass it on in the POST.

              name@filename
                     This will make curl load data from the given file (including  any  newlines),  URL-encode  that
                     data  and  pass  it  on  in  the  POST. The name part gets an equal sign appended, resulting in
                     name=urlencoded-file-content. Note that the name is expected to be URL-encoded already.

       --delegation LEVEL
              Set LEVEL to tell the server what it is allowed to delegate when it comes to  user  credentials.  Used
              with GSS/kerberos.

              none   Don't allow any delegation.

              policy Delegates  if  and only if the OK-AS-DELEGATE flag is set in the Kerberos service ticket, which
                     is a matter of realm policy.

              always Unconditionally allow the server to delegate.

       --digest
              (HTTP) Enables HTTP Digest authentication. This is an authentication scheme that prevents the password
              from being sent over the wire in clear text. Use this in combination with the normal -u, --user option
              to set user name and password. See also --ntlm, --negotiate and --anyauth for related options.

              If this option is used several times, only the first one is used.

       --disable-eprt
              (FTP) Tell curl to disable the use of the EPRT and LPRT commands when doing active FTP transfers. Curl
              will  normally always first attempt to use EPRT, then LPRT before using PORT, but with this option, it
              will use PORT right away. EPRT and LPRT are extensions to the original FTP protocol, and may not  work
              on all servers, but they enable more functionality in a better way than the traditional PORT command.

              --eprt can be used to explicitly enable EPRT again and --no-eprt is an alias for --disable-eprt.

              Disabling EPRT only changes the active behavior. If you want to switch to passive mode you need to not
              use -P, --ftp-port or force it with --ftp-pasv.

       --disable-epsv
              (FTP) Tell curl to disable the use of the EPSV command when doing passive  FTP  transfers.  Curl  will
              normally  always  first  attempt  to use EPSV before PASV, but with this option, it will not try using
              EPSV.

              --epsv can be used to explicitly enable EPSV again and --no-epsv is an alias for --disable-epsv.

              Disabling EPSV only changes the passive behavior. If you want to switch to active mode you need to use
              -P, --ftp-port.

       --dns-interface <interface>
              Tell  curl to send outgoing DNS requests through <interface>. This option is a counterpart to --inter‐
              face (which does not affect DNS). The supplied string must be an interface name (not an address).

              This option requires that libcurl was built with a resolver backend that supports this operation.  The
              c-ares backend is the only such one. (Added in 7.33.0)

       --dns-ipv4-addr <ip-address>
              Tell  curl  to  bind to <ip-address> when making IPv4 DNS requests, so that the DNS requests originate
              from this address. The argument should be a single IPv4 address.

              This option requires that libcurl was built with a resolver backend that supports this operation.  The
              c-ares backend is the only such one.  (Added in 7.33.0)

       --dns-ipv6-addr <ip-address>
              Tell  curl  to  bind to <ip-address> when making IPv6 DNS requests, so that the DNS requests originate
              from this address. The argument should be a single IPv6 address.

              This option requires that libcurl was built with a resolver backend that supports this operation.  The
              c-ares backend is the only such one.  (Added in 7.33.0)

       --dns-servers <ip-address,ip-address>
              Set the list of DNS servers to be used instead of the system default.  The list of IP addresses should
              be separated with commas. Port numbers may also optionally be given as :<port-number>  after  each  IP
              address.

              This  option requires that libcurl was built with a resolver backend that supports this operation. The
              c-ares backend is the only such one.  (Added in 7.33.0)

       -e, --referer <URL>
              (HTTP) Sends the "Referer Page" information to the HTTP server. This can also  be  set  with  the  -H,
              --header flag of course.  When used with -L, --location you can append ";auto" to the --referer URL to
              make curl automatically set the previous URL when it follows a Location: header.  The  ";auto"  string
              can be used alone, even if you don't set an initial --referer.

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       -E, --cert <certificate[:password]>
              (SSL)  Tells curl to use the specified client certificate file when getting a file with HTTPS, FTPS or
              another SSL-based protocol. The certificate must be in PKCS#12 format if using  Secure  Transport,  or
              PEM  format  if  using any other engine.  If the optional password isn't specified, it will be queried
              for on the terminal. Note that this option assumes a "certificate" file that is the  private  key  and
              the private certificate concatenated! See --cert and --key to specify them independently.

              If  curl  is built against the NSS SSL library then this option can tell curl the nickname of the cer‐
              tificate to use within the NSS database defined by the environment variable  SSL_DIR  (or  by  default
              /etc/pki/nssdb).  If  the  NSS  PEM  PKCS#11  module (libnsspem.so) is available then PEM files may be
              loaded. If you want to use a file from the current directory, please precede it with "./"  prefix,  in
              order  to  avoid  confusion with a nickname.  If the nickname contains ":", it needs to be preceded by
              "\" so that it is not recognized as password delimiter.  If the nickname contains "\", it needs to  be
              escaped as "\\" so that it is not recognized as an escape character.

              (iOS  and  Mac  OS  X only) If curl is built against Secure Transport, then the certificate string can
              either be the name of a certificate/private key in the system or user  keychain,  or  the  path  to  a
              PKCS#12-encoded  certificate  and  private  key. If you want to use a file from the current directory,
              please precede it with "./" prefix, in order to avoid confusion with a nickname.

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       --engine <name>
              Select the OpenSSL crypto engine to use for cipher operations. Use --engine list to print  a  list  of
              build-time supported engines. Note that not all (or none) of the engines may be available at run-time.

       --environment
              (RISC OS ONLY) Sets a range of environment variables, using the names the -w option supports, to allow
              easier extraction of useful information after having run curl.

       --egd-file <file>
              (SSL) Specify the path name to the Entropy Gathering Daemon socket. The socket is  used  to  seed  the
              random engine for SSL connections. See also the --random-file option.

       --cert-type <type>
              (SSL) Tells curl what certificate type the provided certificate is in. PEM, DER and ENG are recognized
              types.  If not specified, PEM is assumed.

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       --cacert <CA certificate>
              (SSL) Tells curl to use the specified certificate file to verify the peer. The file may contain multi‐
              ple CA certificates. The certificate(s) must be in PEM format. Normally curl is built to use a default
              file for this, so this option is typically used to alter that default file.

              curl recognizes the environment variable named 'CURL_CA_BUNDLE' if it is set, and uses the given  path
              as a path to a CA cert bundle. This option overrides that variable.

              The  windows  version  of curl will automatically look for a CA certs file named ´curl-ca-bundle.crt´,
              either in the same directory as curl.exe, or in the Current Working Directory, or in any folder  along
              your PATH.

              If  curl  is  built against the NSS SSL library, the NSS PEM PKCS#11 module (libnsspem.so) needs to be
              available for this option to work properly.

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       --capath <CA certificate directory>
              (SSL) Tells curl to use the specified certificate directory to verify the peer. Multiple paths can  be
              provided by separating them with ":" (e.g.  "path1:path2:path3"). The certificates must be in PEM for‐
              mat, and if curl is built against OpenSSL, the directory must have been processed using  the  c_rehash
              utility  supplied  with OpenSSL. Using --capath can allow OpenSSL-powered curl to make SSL-connections
              much more efficiently than using --cacert if the --cacert file contains many CA certificates.

              If this option is set, the default capath value will be ignored, and if it is used several times,  the
              last one will be used.

       -f, --fail
              (HTTP) Fail silently (no output at all) on server errors. This is mostly done to better enable scripts
              etc to better deal with failed attempts. In normal cases when an HTTP server fails to deliver a  docu‐
              ment, it returns an HTML document stating so (which often also describes why and more). This flag will
              prevent curl from outputting that and return error 22.

              This method is not fail-safe and there are occasions where non-successful  response  codes  will  slip
              through, especially when authentication is involved (response codes 401 and 407).

       -F, --form <name=content>
              (HTTP)  This  lets  curl  emulate a filled-in form in which a user has pressed the submit button. This
              causes curl to POST data using the  Content-Type  multipart/form-data  according  to  RFC  2388.  This
              enables  uploading of binary files etc. To force the 'content' part to be a file, prefix the file name
              with an @ sign. To just get the content part from a file, prefix the file name with the symbol <.  The
              difference  between  @  and  <  is then that @ makes a file get attached in the post as a file upload,
              while the < makes a text field and just get the contents for that text field from a file.

              Example, to send your password file to the server, where 'password' is the name of the  form-field  to
              which /etc/passwd will be the input:

              curl -F password=@/etc/passwd www.mypasswords.com

              To  read  content from stdin instead of a file, use - as the filename. This goes for both @ and < con‐
              structs.

              You can also tell curl what Content-Type to use by using 'type=', in a manner similar to:

              curl -F "web=@index.html;type=text/html" url.com

              or

              curl -F "name=daniel;type=text/foo" url.com

              You can also explicitly change the name field of a file upload part by setting filename=, like this:

              curl -F "file=@localfile;filename=nameinpost" url.com

              If filename/path contains ',' or ';', it must be quoted by double-quotes like:

              curl -F "file=@\"localfile\";filename=\"nameinpost\"" url.com

              or

              curl -F 'file=@"localfile";filename="nameinpost"' url.com

              Note that if a filename/path is quoted by double-quotes, any  double-quote  or  backslash  within  the
              filename must be escaped by backslash.

              See further examples and details in the MANUAL.

              This option can be used multiple times.

       --ftp-account [data]
              (FTP)  When an FTP server asks for "account data" after user name and password has been provided, this
              data is sent off using the ACCT command. (Added in 7.13.0)

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       --ftp-alternative-to-user <command>
              (FTP) If authenticating with the USER and PASS commands fails, send this command.  When connecting  to
              Tumbleweed's Secure Transport server over FTPS using a client certificate, using "SITE AUTH" will tell
              the server to retrieve the username from the certificate. (Added in 7.15.5)

       --ftp-create-dirs
              (FTP/SFTP) When an FTP or SFTP URL/operation uses a path that doesn't currently exist on  the  server,
              the standard behavior of curl is to fail. Using this option, curl will instead attempt to create miss‐
              ing directories.

       --ftp-method [method]
              (FTP) Control what method curl should use to reach a file on an FTP(S)  server.  The  method  argument
              should be one of the following alternatives:

              multicwd
                     curl does a single CWD operation for each path part in the given URL. For deep hierarchies this
                     means very many commands. This is how RFC 1738 says it should be done. This is the default  but
                     the slowest behavior.

              nocwd  curl  does  no CWD at all. curl will do SIZE, RETR, STOR etc and give a full path to the server
                     for all these commands. This is the fastest behavior.

              singlecwd
                     curl does one CWD with the full target directory and then operates on the file "normally" (like
                     in  the  multicwd case). This is somewhat more standards compliant than 'nocwd' but without the
                     full penalty of 'multicwd'.
       (Added in 7.15.1)

       --ftp-pasv
              (FTP) Use passive mode for the data connection. Passive is the internal default  behavior,  but  using
              this option can be used to override a previous -P/-ftp-port option. (Added in 7.11.0)

              If  this  option is used several times, only the first one is used. Undoing an enforced passive really
              isn't doable but you must then instead enforce the correct -P, --ftp-port again.

              Passive mode means that curl will try the EPSV command first and then PASV, unless  --disable-epsv  is
              used.

       --ftp-skip-pasv-ip
              (FTP)  Tell  curl to not use the IP address the server suggests in its response to curl's PASV command
              when curl connects the data connection. Instead curl will re-use the same IP address it  already  uses
              for the control connection. (Added in 7.14.2)

              This option has no effect if PORT, EPRT or EPSV is used instead of PASV.

       --ftp-pret
              (FTP)  Tell  curl  to  send a PRET command before PASV (and EPSV). Certain FTP servers, mainly drftpd,
              require this non-standard command for directory listings as well as up and  downloads  in  PASV  mode.
              (Added in 7.20.x)

       --ftp-ssl-ccc
              (FTP)  Use  CCC (Clear Command Channel) Shuts down the SSL/TLS layer after authenticating. The rest of
              the control channel communication will be unencrypted. This allows  NAT  routers  to  follow  the  FTP
              transaction. The default mode is passive. See --ftp-ssl-ccc-mode for other modes.  (Added in 7.16.1)

       --ftp-ssl-ccc-mode [active/passive]
              (FTP)  Use CCC (Clear Command Channel) Sets the CCC mode. The passive mode will not initiate the shut‐
              down, but instead wait for the server to do it, and will not reply to the shutdown  from  the  server.
              The active mode initiates the shutdown and waits for a reply from the server.  (Added in 7.16.2)

       --ftp-ssl-control
              (FTP)  Require  SSL/TLS for the FTP login, clear for transfer.  Allows secure authentication, but non-
              encrypted data transfers for efficiency.  Fails the transfer if the server  doesn't  support  SSL/TLS.
              (Added in 7.16.0) that can still be used but will be removed in a future version.

       --form-string <name=string>
              (HTTP) Similar to --form except that the value string for the named parameter is used literally. Lead‐
              ing '@' and '<' characters, and the ';type=' string in the value have no special meaning. Use this  in
              preference to --form if there's any possibility that the string value may accidentally trigger the '@'
              or '<' features of --form.

       -g, --globoff
              This option switches off the "URL globbing parser". When you set this option,  you  can  specify  URLs
              that  contain  the  letters {}[] without having them being interpreted by curl itself. Note that these
              letters are not normal legal URL contents but they should be encoded according to the URI standard.

       -G, --get
              When used, this option will make all data specified with -d, --data, --data-binary or --data-urlencode
              to  be  used in an HTTP GET request instead of the POST request that otherwise would be used. The data
              will be appended to the URL with a '?' separator.

              If used in combination with -I, the POST data will instead be appended to the URL with a HEAD request.

              If this option is used several times, only the first one is  used.  This  is  because  undoing  a  GET
              doesn't make sense, but you should then instead enforce the alternative method you prefer.

       -H, --header <header>
              (HTTP)  Extra header to use when getting a web page. You may specify any number of extra headers. Note
              that if you should add a custom header that has the same name as one of the internal ones  curl  would
              use, your externally set header will be used instead of the internal one. This allows you to make even
              trickier stuff than curl would normally do. You should not  replace  internally  set  headers  without
              knowing  perfectly  well  what you're doing. Remove an internal header by giving a replacement without
              content on the right side of the colon, as in: -H "Host:". If you send the custom header with no-value
              then  its header must be terminated with a semicolon, such as -H "X-Custom-Header;" to send "X-Custom-
              Header:".

              curl will make sure that each header you add/replace is sent with the proper end-of-line  marker,  you
              should  thus  not  add  that as a part of the header content: do not add newlines or carriage returns,
              they will only mess things up for you.

              See also the -A, --user-agent and -e, --referer options.

              This option can be used multiple times to add/replace/remove multiple headers.

       --hostpubmd5 <md5>
              (SCP/SFTP) Pass a string containing 32 hexadecimal digits. The string should be the 128 bit MD5 check‐
              sum  of the remote host's public key, curl will refuse the connection with the host unless the md5sums
              match. (Added in 7.17.1)

       --ignore-content-length
              (HTTP) Ignore the Content-Length header. This is particularly useful for servers running  Apache  1.x,
              which will report incorrect Content-Length for files larger than 2 gigabytes.

       -i, --include
              (HTTP)  Include  the HTTP-header in the output. The HTTP-header includes things like server-name, date
              of the document, HTTP-version and more...

       -I, --head
              (HTTP/FTP/FILE) Fetch the HTTP-header only! HTTP-servers feature the command HEAD which this  uses  to
              get  nothing  but  the  header of a document. When used on an FTP or FILE file, curl displays the file
              size and last modification time only.

       --interface <name>
              Perform an operation using a specified interface. You can enter interface name,  IP  address  or  host
              name. An example could look like:

               curl --interface eth0:1 http://www.netscape.com/

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       -j, --junk-session-cookies
              (HTTP) When curl is told to read cookies from a given file, this option will make it discard all "ses‐
              sion cookies". This will basically have the same effect as  if  a  new  session  is  started.  Typical
              browsers always discard session cookies when they're closed down.

       -J, --remote-header-name
              (HTTP)  This option tells the -O, --remote-name option to use the server-specified Content-Disposition
              filename instead of extracting a filename from the URL.

              There's no attempt to decode %-sequences (yet) in the provided file name, so this option  may  provide
              you with rather unexpected file names.

       -k, --insecure
              (SSL)  This option explicitly allows curl to perform "insecure" SSL connections and transfers. All SSL
              connections are attempted to be made secure by using the CA certificate bundle installed  by  default.
              This makes all connections considered "insecure" fail unless -k, --insecure is used.

              See this online resource for further details: http://curl.haxx.se/docs/sslcerts.html

       -K, --config <config file>
              Specify which config file to read curl arguments from. The config file is a text file in which command
              line arguments can be written which then will be used as if they were written on  the  actual  command
              line.

              Options  and their parameters must be specified on the same config file line, separated by whitespace,
              colon, or the equals sign. Long option names can optionally be given in the config  file  without  the
              initial  double  dashes  and  if  so, the colon or equals characters can be used as separators. If the
              option is specified with one or two dashes, there can be no colon  or  equals  character  between  the
              option and its parameter.

              If the parameter is to contain whitespace, the parameter must be enclosed within quotes. Within double
              quotes, the following escape sequences are available: \\, \", \t, \n, \r and \v. A backslash preceding
              any  other letter is ignored. If the first column of a config line is a '#' character, the rest of the
              line will be treated as a comment. Only write one option per physical line in the config file.

              Specify the filename to -K, --config as '-' to make curl read the file from stdin.

              Note that to be able to specify a URL in the config file, you need  to  specify  it  using  the  --url
              option, and not by simply writing the URL on its own line. So, it could look similar to this:

              url = "http://curl.haxx.se/docs/"

              When  curl  is  invoked, it always (unless -q is used) checks for a default config file and uses it if
              found. The default config file is checked for in the following places in this order:

              1) curl tries to find the "home dir": It first checks for the CURL_HOME and then the HOME  environment
              variables. Failing that, it uses getpwuid() on UNIX-like systems (which returns the home dir given the
              current user in your system). On Windows, it then checks for the APPDATA variable, or as a last resort
              the '%USERPROFILE%\Application Data'.

              2) On windows, if there is no _curlrc file in the home dir, it checks for one in the same dir the curl
              executable is placed. On UNIX-like systems, it will simply try to load  .curlrc  from  the  determined
              home dir.

              # --- Example file ---
              # this is a comment
              url = "curl.haxx.se"
              output = "curlhere.html"
              user-agent = "superagent/1.0"

              # and fetch another URL too
              url = "curl.haxx.se/docs/manpage.html"
              -O
              referer = "http://nowhereatall.com/"
              # --- End of example file ---

              This option can be used multiple times to load multiple config files.

       --keepalive-time <seconds>
              This  option  sets  the time a connection needs to remain idle before sending keepalive probes and the
              time between individual keepalive probes. It is currently effective on operating systems offering  the
              TCP_KEEPIDLE and TCP_KEEPINTVL socket options (meaning Linux, recent AIX, HP-UX and more). This option
              has no effect if --no-keepalive is used. (Added in 7.18.0)

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used. If unspecified, the  option  defaults
              to 60 seconds.

       --key <key>
              (SSL/SSH) Private key file name. Allows you to provide your private key in this separate file.

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       --key-type <type>
              (SSL)  Private key file type. Specify which type your --key provided private key is. DER, PEM, and ENG
              are supported. If not specified, PEM is assumed.

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       --krb <level>
              (FTP) Enable Kerberos authentication and use. The level must be entered and should be one of  'clear',
              'safe',  'confidential', or 'private'. Should you use a level that is not one of these, 'private' will
              instead be used.

              This option requires a library built with kerberos4 or GSSAPI (GSS-Negotiate)  support.  This  is  not
              very common. Use -V, --version to see if your curl supports it.

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       -l, --list-only
              (FTP) When listing an FTP directory, this switch forces a name-only view. This is especially useful if
              the user wants to machine-parse the contents of an FTP  directory  since  the  normal  directory  view
              doesn't  use  a  standard  look or format. When used like this, the option causes a NLST command to be
              sent to the server instead of LIST.

              Note: Some FTP servers list only files in their response to NLST; they do not include  sub-directories
              and symbolic links.

              (POP3)  When  retrieving a specific email from POP3, this switch forces a LIST command to be performed
              instead of RETR. This is particularly useful if the user wants to see if a specific message id  exists
              on the server and what size it is.

              Note:  When  combined  with  -X,  --request <command>, this option can be used to send an UIDL command
              instead, so the user may use the email's unique identifier rather than it's message  id  to  make  the
              request. (Added in 7.21.5)

       -L, --location
              (HTTP/HTTPS)  If  the  server reports that the requested page has moved to a different location (indi‐
              cated with a Location: header and a 3XX response code), this option will make curl redo the request on
              the  new  place.  If  used together with -i, --include or -I, --head, headers from all requested pages
              will be shown. When authentication is used, curl only sends its credentials to the initial host. If  a
              redirect  takes  curl  to  a different host, it won't be able to intercept the user+password. See also
              --location-trusted on how to change this. You can limit the amount of redirects to follow by using the
              --max-redirs option.

              When  curl follows a redirect and the request is not a plain GET (for example POST or PUT), it will do
              the following request with a GET if the HTTP response was 301, 302, or 303. If the response  code  was
              any other 3xx code, curl will re-send the following request using the same unmodified method.

       --libcurl <file>
              Append  this  option to any ordinary curl command line, and you will get a libcurl-using C source code
              written to the file that does the equivalent of what your command-line operation does!

              If this option is used several times, the last given file name will be used. (Added in 7.16.1)

       --limit-rate <speed>
              Specify the maximum transfer rate you want curl to use. This feature is useful if you have  a  limited
              pipe and you'd like your transfer not to use your entire bandwidth.

              The  given  speed is measured in bytes/second, unless a suffix is appended.  Appending 'k' or 'K' will
              count the number as kilobytes, 'm' or M' makes it megabytes, while 'g'  or  'G'  makes  it  gigabytes.
              Examples: 200K, 3m and 1G.

              The  given  rate is the average speed counted during the entire transfer. It means that curl might use
              higher transfer speeds in short bursts, but over time it uses no more than the given rate.

              If you also use the -Y, --speed-limit option, that option will take precedence and might  cripple  the
              rate-limiting slightly, to help keeping the speed-limit logic working.

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       --local-port <num>[-num]
              Set  a  preferred  number or range of local port numbers to use for the connection(s).  Note that port
              numbers by nature are a scarce resource that will be busy at times so setting this range to  something
              too narrow might cause unnecessary connection setup failures. (Added in 7.15.2)

       --location-trusted
              (HTTP/HTTPS)  Like  -L,  --location,  but will allow sending the name + password to all hosts that the
              site may redirect to. This may or may not introduce a security breach if the site redirects you  to  a
              site  to  which  you'll  send  your  authentication info (which is plaintext in the case of HTTP Basic
              authentication).

       -m, --max-time <seconds>
              Maximum time in seconds that you allow the whole operation to take.  This  is  useful  for  preventing
              your  batch  jobs from hanging for hours due to slow networks or links going down.  Since 7.32.0, this
              option accepts decimal values, but the actual timeout will decrease in accuracy as the specified time‐
              out increases in decimal precision.  See also the --connect-timeout option.

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       --mail-auth <address>
              (SMTP) Specify a single address. This will be used to specify the authentication address (identity) of
              a submitted message that is being relayed to another server.

              (Added in 7.25.0)

       --mail-from <address>
              (SMTP) Specify a single address that the given mail should get sent from.

              (Added in 7.20.0)

       --max-filesize <bytes>
              Specify the maximum size (in bytes) of a file to download. If the file requested is larger  than  this
              value, the transfer will not start and curl will return with exit code 63.

              NOTE:  The  file  size  is  not  always known prior to download, and for such files this option has no
              effect even if the file transfer ends up being larger than this given limit. This  concerns  both  FTP
              and HTTP transfers.

       --mail-rcpt <address>
              (SMTP) Specify a single address, user name or mailing list name.

              When  performing  a mail transfer, the recipient should specify a valid email address to send the mail
              to. (Added in 7.20.0)

              When performing an address verification (VRFY command), the recipient should be specified as the  user
              name or user name and domain (as per Section 3.5 of RFC5321). (Added in 7.34.0)

              When  performing  a  mailing  list  expand (EXPN command), the recipient should be specified using the
              mailing list name, such as "Friends" or "London-Office".  (Added in 7.34.0)

       --max-redirs <num>
              Set maximum number of redirection-followings allowed. If -L, --location is used, this  option  can  be
              used  to  prevent  curl  from following redirections "in absurdum". By default, the limit is set to 50
              redirections. Set this option to -1 to make it limitless.

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       --metalink
              This option can tell curl to parse and process a given URI as Metalink file (both version 3 and 4 (RFC
              5854)  are supported) and make use of the mirrors listed within for failover if there are errors (such
              as the file or server not being available). It will also verify the hash of the file after  the  down‐
              load  completes.  The Metalink file itself is downloaded and processed in memory and not stored in the
              local file system.

              Example to use a remote Metalink file:

              curl --metalink http://www.example.com/example.metalink

              To use a Metalink file in the local file system, use FILE protocol (file://):

              curl --metalink file://example.metalink

              Please note that if FILE protocol is disabled, there is no way to use a local  Metalink  file  at  the
              time  of this writing. Also note that if --metalink and --include are used together, --include will be
              ignored. This is because including headers in the response will break Metalink parser and if the head‐
              ers are included in the file described in Metalink file, hash check will fail.

              (Added in 7.27.0, if built against the libmetalink library.)

       -n, --netrc
              Makes  curl  scan  the .netrc (_netrc on Windows) file in the user's home directory for login name and
              password. This is typically used for FTP on UNIX. If used with HTTP, curl will enable user authentica‐
              tion.  See  netrc(4)  or  ftp(1)  for  details on the file format. Curl will not complain if that file
              doesn't have the right permissions (it should not be either world- or group-readable). The environment
              variable "HOME" is used to find the home directory.

              A  quick  and  very  simple  example  of  how  to  setup  a .netrc to allow curl to FTP to the machine
              host.domain.com with user name 'myself' and password 'secret' should look similar to:

              machine host.domain.com login myself password secret

       -N, --no-buffer
              Disables the buffering of the output stream. In normal work  situations,  curl  will  use  a  standard
              buffered output stream that will have the effect that it will output the data in chunks, not necessar‐
              ily exactly when the data arrives.  Using this option will disable that buffering.

              Note that this is the negated option name documented. You can thus use --buffer to enforce the buffer‐
              ing.

       --netrc-file
              This  option  is  similar  to  --netrc, except that you provide the path (absolute or relative) to the
              netrc file that Curl should use.  You can only specify one  netrc  file  per  invocation.  If  several
              --netrc-file options are provided, only the last one will be used.  (Added in 7.21.5)

              This  option  overrides  any  use  of  --netrc  as they are mutually exclusive.  It will also abide by
              --netrc-optional if specified.


       --netrc-optional
              Very similar to --netrc, but this option makes the .netrc usage optional  and  not  mandatory  as  the
              --netrc option does.


       --negotiate
              (HTTP) Enables GSS-Negotiate authentication. The GSS-Negotiate method was designed by Microsoft and is
              used in their web applications. It is primarily meant as a support for  Kerberos5  authentication  but
              may  be also used along with another authentication method. For more information see IETF draft draft-
              brezak-spnego-http-04.txt.

              If you want to enable Negotiate for your proxy authentication, then use --proxy-negotiate.

              This option requires a library built with GSSAPI support. This is not very common. Use  -V,  --version
              to see if your version supports GSS-Negotiate.

              When  using this option, you must also provide a fake -u, --user option to activate the authentication
              code properly. Sending a '-u :' is enough as the user name and password  from  the  -u  option  aren't
              actually used.

              If this option is used several times, only the first one is used.

       --no-keepalive
              Disables the use of keepalive messages on the TCP connection, as by default curl enables them.

              Note  that  this  is  the  negated  option  name  documented.  You can thus use --keepalive to enforce
              keepalive.

       --no-sessionid
              (SSL) Disable curl's use of SSL session-ID caching.  By default  all  transfers  are  done  using  the
              cache. Note that while nothing should ever get hurt by attempting to reuse SSL session-IDs, there seem
              to be broken SSL implementations in the wild that may require you to disable this in order for you  to
              succeed. (Added in 7.16.0)

              Note that this is the negated option name documented. You can thus use --sessionid to enforce session-
              ID caching.

       --noproxy <no-proxy-list>
              Comma-separated list of hosts which do not use a proxy, if one is specified.  The only wildcard  is  a
              single  *  character,  which  matches all hosts, and effectively disables the proxy. Each name in this
              list is matched as either a domain which contains the hostname, or the hostname itself.  For  example,
              local.com would match local.com, local.com:80, and www.local.com, but not www.notlocal.com.  (Added in
              7.19.4).

       --ntlm (HTTP) Enables NTLM authentication. The NTLM authentication method was designed by  Microsoft  and  is
              used  by IIS web servers. It is a proprietary protocol, reverse-engineered by clever people and imple‐
              mented in curl based on their efforts. This kind of  behavior  should  not  be  endorsed,  you  should
              encourage  everyone  who uses NTLM to switch to a public and documented authentication method instead,
              such as Digest.

              If you want to enable NTLM for your proxy authentication, then use --proxy-ntlm.

              This option requires a library built with SSL support. Use -V, --version to see if your curl  supports
              NTLM.

              If this option is used several times, only the first one is used.

       -o, --output <file>
              Write  output  to <file> instead of stdout. If you are using {} or [] to fetch multiple documents, you
              can use '#' followed by a number in the <file> specifier. That variable will be replaced with the cur‐
              rent string for the URL being fetched. Like in:

                curl http://{one,two}.site.com -o "file_#1.txt"

              or use several variables like:

                curl http://{site,host}.host[1-5].com -o "#1_#2"

              You may use this option as many times as the number of URLs you have.

              See  also  the --create-dirs option to create the local directories dynamically. Specifying the output
              as '-' (a single dash) will force the output to be done to stdout.

       -O, --remote-name
              Write output to a local file named like the remote file we get. (Only the file part of the remote file
              is used, the path is cut off.)

              The remote file name to use for saving is extracted from the given URL, nothing else.

              Consequentially,  the  file will be saved in the current working directory. If you want the file saved
              in a different directory, make sure you change current working directory before you invoke  curl  with
              the -O, --remote-name flag!

              There  is no URL decoding done on the file name. If it has %20 or other URL encoded parts of the name,
              they will end up as-is as file name.

              You may use this option as many times as the number of URLs you have.

       --oauth2-bearer
              (IMAP, POP3, SMTP) Specify the Bearer Token for OAUTH 2.0 server authentication. The Bearer  Token  is
              used  in  conjunction  with  the  user  name which can be specified as part of the --url or -u, --user
              options.

              The Bearer Token and user name are formatted according to RFC 6750.

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       -p, --proxytunnel
              When an HTTP proxy is used (-x, --proxy), this option will cause non-HTTP protocols to attempt to tun‐
              nel  through  the  proxy instead of merely using it to do HTTP-like operations. The tunnel approach is
              made with the HTTP proxy CONNECT request and requires that the proxy  allows  direct  connect  to  the
              remote port number curl wants to tunnel through to.

       -P, --ftp-port <address>
              (FTP)  Reverses  the default initiator/listener roles when connecting with FTP. This switch makes curl
              use active mode. In practice, curl then tells the server to connect back  to  the  client's  specified
              address and port, while passive mode asks the server to setup an IP address and port for it to connect
              to. <address> should be one of:

              interface
                     i.e "eth0" to specify which interface's IP address you want to use (Unix only)

              IP address
                     i.e "192.168.10.1" to specify the exact IP address

              host name
                     i.e "my.host.domain" to specify the machine

              -      make curl pick the same IP address that is already used for the control connection

       If this option is used several times, the last one will be used. Disable the use  of  PORT  with  --ftp-pasv.
       Disable the attempt to use the EPRT command instead of PORT by using --disable-eprt. EPRT is really PORT++.

       Starting  in  7.19.5, you can append ":[start]-[end]" to the right of the address, to tell curl what TCP port
       range to use. That means you specify a port range, from a lower to a higher number. A single number works  as
       well, but do note that it increases the risk of failure since the port may not be available.

       --pass <phrase>
              (SSL/SSH) Passphrase for the private key

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       --post301
              (HTTP) Tells curl to respect RFC 2616/10.3.2 and not convert POST requests into GET requests when fol‐
              lowing a 301 redirection. The non-RFC behaviour is ubiquitous in web browsers, so curl does  the  con‐
              version  by  default  to  maintain  consistency. However, a server may require a POST to remain a POST
              after such a redirection. This option is meaningful only when using -L, --location (Added in 7.17.1)

       --post302
              (HTTP) Tells curl to respect RFC 2616/10.3.2 and not convert POST requests into GET requests when fol‐
              lowing  a  302 redirection. The non-RFC behaviour is ubiquitous in web browsers, so curl does the con‐
              version by default to maintain consistency. However, a server may require a  POST  to  remain  a  POST
              after such a redirection. This option is meaningful only when using -L, --location (Added in 7.19.1)

       --post303
              (HTTP) Tells curl to respect RFC 2616/10.3.2 and not convert POST requests into GET requests when fol‐
              lowing a 303 redirection. The non-RFC behaviour is ubiquitous in web browsers, so curl does  the  con‐
              version  by  default  to  maintain  consistency. However, a server may require a POST to remain a POST
              after such a redirection. This option is meaningful only when using -L, --location (Added in 7.26.0)

       --proto <protocols>
              Tells curl to use the listed protocols for its initial retrieval.  Protocols  are  evaluated  left  to
              right, are comma separated, and are each a protocol name or 'all', optionally prefixed by zero or more
              modifiers. Available modifiers are:

              +  Permit this protocol in addition to protocols already permitted (this is the default if no modifier
                 is used).

              -  Deny this protocol, removing it from the list of protocols already permitted.

              =  Permit  only this protocol (ignoring the list already permitted), though subject to later modifica‐
                 tion by subsequent entries in the comma separated list.

              For example:

              --proto -ftps  uses the default protocols, but disables ftps

              --proto -all,https,+http
                             only enables http and https

              --proto =http,https
                             also only enables http and https

              Unknown protocols produce a warning. This allows scripts to safely  rely  on  being  able  to  disable
              potentially  dangerous protocols, without relying upon support for that protocol being built into curl
              to avoid an error.

              This option can be used multiple times, in which case the effect is the same as concatenating the pro‐
              tocols into one instance of the option.

              (Added in 7.20.2)

       --proto-redir <protocols>
              Tells  curl  to  use  the  listed protocols after a redirect. See --proto for how protocols are repre‐
              sented.

              (Added in 7.20.2)

       --proxy-anyauth
              Tells curl to pick a suitable authentication method when communicating  with  the  given  proxy.  This
              might cause an extra request/response round-trip. (Added in 7.13.2)

       --proxy-basic
              Tells  curl  to use HTTP Basic authentication when communicating with the given proxy. Use --basic for
              enabling HTTP Basic with a remote host. Basic is the default  authentication  method  curl  uses  with
              proxies.

       --proxy-digest
              Tells curl to use HTTP Digest authentication when communicating with the given proxy. Use --digest for
              enabling HTTP Digest with a remote host.

       --proxy-negotiate
              Tells curl to use HTTP Negotiate authentication when communicating with the given proxy. Use --negoti‐
              ate for enabling HTTP Negotiate with a remote host. (Added in 7.17.1)

       --proxy-ntlm
              Tells  curl  to  use  HTTP NTLM authentication when communicating with the given proxy. Use --ntlm for
              enabling NTLM with a remote host.

       --proxy1.0 <proxyhost[:port]>
              Use the specified HTTP 1.0 proxy. If the port number is not specified, it is assumed at port 1080.

              The only difference between this and the HTTP proxy option (-x, --proxy), is that attempts to use CON‐
              NECT through the proxy will specify an HTTP 1.0 protocol instead of the default HTTP 1.1.

       --pubkey <key>
              (SSH) Public key file name. Allows you to provide your public key in this separate file.

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       -q     If  used as the first parameter on the command line, the curlrc config file will not be read and used.
              See the -K, --config for details on the default config file search path.

       -Q, --quote <command>
              (FTP/SFTP) Send an arbitrary command to the remote FTP or SFTP server. Quote commands are sent  BEFORE
              the transfer takes place (just after the initial PWD command in an FTP transfer, to be exact). To make
              commands take place after a successful transfer, prefix them with a dash '-'.   To  make  commands  be
              sent  after  curl  has  changed the working directory, just before the transfer command(s), prefix the
              command with a '+' (this is only supported for FTP). You may specify any number of  commands.  If  the
              server  returns  failure  for one of the commands, the entire operation will be aborted. You must send
              syntactically correct FTP commands as RFC 959 defines to FTP servers, or one of  the  commands  listed
              below to SFTP servers.  This option can be used multiple times. When speaking to an FTP server, prefix
              the command with an asterisk (*) to make curl continue even if the command fails as  by  default  curl
              will stop at first failure.

              SFTP  is  a binary protocol. Unlike for FTP, curl interprets SFTP quote commands itself before sending
              them to the server.  File names may be quoted shell-style to embed spaces or special characters.  Fol‐
              lowing is the list of all supported SFTP quote commands:

              chgrp group file
                     The chgrp command sets the group ID of the file named by the file operand to the group ID spec‐
                     ified by the group operand. The group operand is a decimal integer group ID.

              chmod mode file
                     The chmod command modifies the file mode bits of the specified file. The  mode  operand  is  an
                     octal integer mode number.

              chown user file
                     The chown command sets the owner of the file named by the file operand to the user ID specified
                     by the user operand. The user operand is a decimal integer user ID.

              ln source_file target_file
                     The ln and symlink commands create a symbolic link at the target_file location pointing to  the
                     source_file location.

              mkdir directory_name
                     The mkdir command creates the directory named by the directory_name operand.

              pwd    The pwd command returns the absolute pathname of the current working directory.

              rename source target
                     The rename command renames the file or directory named by the source operand to the destination
                     path named by the target operand.

              rm file
                     The rm command removes the file specified by the file operand.

              rmdir directory
                     The rmdir command removes the directory entry specified by the directory operand,  provided  it
                     is empty.

              symlink source_file target_file
                     See ln.

       -r, --range <range>
              (HTTP/FTP/SFTP/FILE)  Retrieve  a  byte  range  (i.e  a partial document) from a HTTP/1.1, FTP or SFTP
              server or a local FILE. Ranges can be specified in a number of ways.

              0-499     specifies the first 500 bytes

              500-999   specifies the second 500 bytes

              -500      specifies the last 500 bytes

              9500-     specifies the bytes from offset 9500 and forward

              0-0,-1    specifies the first and last byte only(*)(H)

              500-700,600-799
                        specifies 300 bytes from offset 500(H)

              100-199,500-599
                        specifies two separate 100-byte ranges(*)(H)

       (*) = NOTE that this will cause the server to reply with a multipart response!

       Only digit characters (0-9) are valid in the 'start' and 'stop' fields of the 'start-stop' range syntax. If a
       non-digit  character  is  given  in  the  range,  the server's response will be unspecified, depending on the
       server's configuration.

       You should also be aware that many HTTP/1.1 servers do not have  this  feature  enabled,  so  that  when  you
       attempt to get a range, you'll instead get the whole document.

       FTP  and SFTP range downloads only support the simple 'start-stop' syntax (optionally with one of the numbers
       omitted). FTP use depends on the extended FTP command SIZE.

       If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       -R, --remote-time
              When used, this will make curl attempt to figure out the timestamp of the remote file, and if that  is
              available make the local file get that same timestamp.

       --random-file <file>
              (SSL)  Specify  the  path  name to file containing what will be considered as random data. The data is
              used to seed the random engine for SSL connections.  See also the --egd-file option.

       --raw  (HTTP) When used, it disables all internal HTTP decoding of content or transfer encodings and  instead
              makes them passed on unaltered, raw. (Added in 7.16.2)

       --remote-name-all
              This  option  changes  the  default action for all given URLs to be dealt with as if -O, --remote-name
              were used for each one. So if you want to disable that for a specific URL after --remote-name-all  has
              been used, you must use "-o -" or --no-remote-name. (Added in 7.19.0)

       --resolve <host:port:address>
              Provide  a  custom  address  for  a  specific  host  and  port pair. Using this, you can make the curl
              requests(s) use a specified address and prevent the otherwise normally resolved address  to  be  used.
              Consider  it  a sort of /etc/hosts alternative provided on the command line. The port number should be
              the number used for the specific protocol the host will be used for. It means you need several entries
              if you want to provide address for the same host but different ports.

              This option can be used many times to add many host names to resolve.

              (Added in 7.21.3)

       --retry <num>
              If  a  transient error is returned when curl tries to perform a transfer, it will retry this number of
              times before giving up. Setting the number to 0 makes curl do no retries (which is the default). Tran‐
              sient error means either: a timeout, an FTP 4xx response code or an HTTP 5xx response code.

              When  curl  is  about  to retry a transfer, it will first wait one second and then for all forthcoming
              retries it will double the waiting time until it reaches 10 minutes  which  then  will  be  the  delay
              between  the  rest  of the retries.  By using --retry-delay you disable this exponential backoff algo‐
              rithm. See also --retry-max-time to limit the total time allowed for retries. (Added in 7.12.3)

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       --retry-delay <seconds>
              Make curl sleep this amount of time before each retry when a transfer  has  failed  with  a  transient
              error (it changes the default backoff time algorithm between retries). This option is only interesting
              if --retry is also used. Setting this delay to zero will make  curl  use  the  default  backoff  time.
              (Added in 7.12.3)

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       --retry-max-time <seconds>
              The  retry  timer  is  reset  before  the  first  transfer attempt. Retries will be done as usual (see
              --retry) as long as the timer hasn't reached this given limit. Notice that if the timer hasn't reached
              the  limit,  the  request  will  be made and while performing, it may take longer than this given time
              period. To limit a single request´s maximum time, use -m, --max-time.  Set this option to zero to  not
              timeout retries. (Added in 7.12.3)

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       -s, --silent
              Silent  or  quiet  mode.  Don't show progress meter or error messages.  Makes Curl mute. It will still
              output the data you ask for, potentially even to the terminal/stdout unless you redirect it.

       --sasl-ir
              Enable initial response in SASL authentication.  (Added in 7.31.0)

       -S, --show-error
              When used with -s it makes curl show an error message if it fails.

       --ssl  (FTP, POP3, IMAP, SMTP) Try to use SSL/TLS for the connection.  Reverts to a non-secure connection  if
              the server doesn't support SSL/TLS.  See also --ftp-ssl-control and --ssl-reqd for different levels of
              encryption required. (Added in 7.20.0)

              This option was formerly known as --ftp-ssl (Added in 7.11.0). That option name can still be used  but
              will be removed in a future version.

       --ssl-reqd
              (FTP,  POP3,  IMAP, SMTP) Require SSL/TLS for the connection.  Terminates the connection if the server
              doesn't support SSL/TLS. (Added in 7.20.0)

              This option was formerly known as --ftp-ssl-reqd (added in 7.15.5). That option name can still be used
              but will be removed in a future version.

       --ssl-allow-beast
              (SSL) This option tells curl to not work around a security flaw in the SSL3 and TLS1.0 protocols known
              as BEAST.  If this option isn't used, the SSL layer may use work-arounds known to cause interoperabil‐
              ity  problems  with some older SSL implementations. WARNING: this option loosens the SSL security, and
              by using this flag you ask for exactly that.  (Added in 7.25.0)

       --socks4 <host[:port]>
              Use the specified SOCKS4 proxy. If the port number is not specified,  it  is  assumed  at  port  1080.
              (Added in 7.15.2)

              This option overrides any previous use of -x, --proxy, as they are mutually exclusive.

              Since 7.21.7, this option is superfluous since you can specify a socks4 proxy with -x, --proxy using a
              socks4:// protocol prefix.

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       --socks4a <host[:port]>
              Use the specified SOCKS4a proxy. If the port number is not specified, it  is  assumed  at  port  1080.
              (Added in 7.18.0)

              This option overrides any previous use of -x, --proxy, as they are mutually exclusive.

              Since  7.21.7, this option is superfluous since you can specify a socks4a proxy with -x, --proxy using
              a socks4a:// protocol prefix.

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       --socks5-hostname <host[:port]>
              Use the specified SOCKS5 proxy (and let the proxy resolve the host name). If the port  number  is  not
              specified, it is assumed at port 1080. (Added in 7.18.0)

              This option overrides any previous use of -x, --proxy, as they are mutually exclusive.

              Since  7.21.7,  this  option  is  superfluous  since  you can specify a socks5 hostname proxy with -x,
              --proxy using a socks5h:// protocol prefix.

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used. (This option was  previously  wrongly
              documented and used as --socks without the number appended.)

       --socks5 <host[:port]>
              Use  the  specified SOCKS5 proxy - but resolve the host name locally. If the port number is not speci‐
              fied, it is assumed at port 1080.

              This option overrides any previous use of -x, --proxy, as they are mutually exclusive.

              Since 7.21.7, this option is superfluous since you can specify a socks5 proxy with -x, --proxy using a
              socks5:// protocol prefix.

              If  this  option is used several times, the last one will be used. (This option was previously wrongly
              documented and used as --socks without the number appended.)

              This option (as well as --socks4) does not work with IPV6, FTPS or LDAP.

       --socks5-gssapi-service <servicename>
              The default service name for a socks server is rcmd/server-fqdn. This option allows you to change it.

              Examples: --socks5 proxy-name --socks5-gssapi-service sockd would use sockd/proxy-name --socks5 proxy-
              name  --socks5-gssapi-service sockd/real-name would use sockd/real-name for cases where the proxy-name
              does not match the principal name.  (Added in 7.19.4).

       --socks5-gssapi-nec
              As part of the gssapi negotiation a protection mode is negotiated. RFC 1961 says in section 4.3/4.4 it
              should  be  protected,  but the NEC reference implementation does not.  The option --socks5-gssapi-nec
              allows the unprotected exchange of the protection mode negotiation. (Added in 7.19.4).

       --stderr <file>
              Redirect all writes to stderr to the specified file instead. If the file name is a plain  '-',  it  is
              instead written to stdout.

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       -t, --telnet-option <OPT=val>
              Pass options to the telnet protocol. Supported options are:

              TTYPE=<term> Sets the terminal type.

              XDISPLOC=<X display> Sets the X display location.

              NEW_ENV=<var,val> Sets an environment variable.

       -T, --upload-file <file>
              This  transfers  the specified local file to the remote URL. If there is no file part in the specified
              URL, Curl will append the local file name. NOTE that you must use a trailing / on the  last  directory
              to really prove to Curl that there is no file name or curl will think that your last directory name is
              the remote file name to use. That will most likely cause the upload operation to fail. If this is used
              on an HTTP(S) server, the PUT command will be used.

              Use  the  file  name  "-" (a single dash) to use stdin instead of a given file.  Alternately, the file
              name "." (a single period) may be specified instead of "-" to use stdin in non-blocking mode to  allow
              reading server output while stdin is being uploaded.

              You  can  specify one -T for each URL on the command line. Each -T + URL pair specifies what to upload
              and to where. curl also supports "globbing" of the -T argument, meaning that you can  upload  multiple
              files to a single URL by using the same URL globbing style supported in the URL, like this:

              curl -T "{file1,file2}" http://www.uploadtothissite.com

              or even

              curl -T "img[1-1000].png" ftp://ftp.picturemania.com/upload/

       --tcp-nodelay
              Turn  on  the  TCP_NODELAY option. See the curl_easy_setopt(3) man page for details about this option.
              (Added in 7.11.2)

       --tftp-blksize <value>
              (TFTP) Set TFTP BLKSIZE option (must be >512). This is the block size that curl will try to  use  when
              transferring data to or from a TFTP server. By default 512 bytes will be used.

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

              (Added in 7.20.0)

       --tlsauthtype <authtype>
              Set TLS authentication type. Currently, the only supported option is "SRP", for TLS-SRP (RFC 5054). If
              --tlsuser and --tlspassword are specified but --tlsauthtype is  not,  then  this  option  defaults  to
              "SRP".  (Added in 7.21.4)

       --tlspassword <password>
              Set  password  for  use with the TLS authentication method specified with --tlsauthtype. Requires that
              --tlsuser also be set.  (Added in 7.21.4)

       --tlsuser <user>
              Set username for use with the TLS authentication method specified with  --tlsauthtype.  Requires  that
              --tlspassword also be set.  (Added in 7.21.4)

       --tlsv1.0
              (SSL) Forces curl to use TLS version 1.0 when negotiating with a remote TLS server.  (Added in 7.34.0)

       --tlsv1.1
              (SSL) Forces curl to use TLS version 1.1 when negotiating with a remote TLS server.  (Added in 7.34.0)

       --tlsv1.2
              (SSL) Forces curl to use TLS version 1.2 when negotiating with a remote TLS server.  (Added in 7.34.0)

       --tr-encoding
              (HTTP)  Request a compressed Transfer-Encoding response using one of the algorithms curl supports, and
              uncompress the data while receiving it.

              (Added in 7.21.6)

       --trace <file>
              Enables a full trace dump of all incoming and outgoing data, including descriptive information, to the
              given output file. Use "-" as filename to have the output sent to stdout.

              This option overrides previous uses of -v, --verbose or --trace-ascii.

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       --trace-ascii <file>
              Enables a full trace dump of all incoming and outgoing data, including descriptive information, to the
              given output file. Use "-" as filename to have the output sent to stdout.

              This is very similar to --trace, but leaves out the hex part and only shows  the  ASCII  part  of  the
              dump. It makes smaller output that might be easier to read for untrained humans.

              This option overrides previous uses of -v, --verbose or --trace.

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       --trace-time
              Prepends a time stamp to each trace or verbose line that curl displays.  (Added in 7.14.0)

       -u, --user <user:password;options>
              Specify the user name, password and optional login options to use for server authentication. Overrides
              -n, --netrc and --netrc-optional.

              If you simply specify the user name, with or without the login options, curl will prompt for  a  pass‐
              word.

              If  you  use an SSPI-enabled curl binary and perform NTLM authentication, you can force curl to select
              the user name and password from your environment by simply specifying a single colon with this option:
              "-u :" or by specfying the login options on their own, for example "-u ;auth=NTLM".

              You can use the optional login options part to specify protocol specific options that may be used dur‐
              ing authentication. At present only IMAP, POP3 and SMTP support login options  as  part  of  the  user
              login information. For more information about the login options please see RFC 2384, RFC 5092 and IETF
              draft draft-earhart-url-smtp-00.txt (Added in 7.31.0).

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       -U, --proxy-user <user:password>
              Specify the user name and password to use for proxy authentication.

              If you use an SSPI-enabled curl binary and do NTLM authentication, you can force curl to pick  up  the
              user name and password from your environment by simply specifying a single colon with this option: "-U
              :".

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       --url <URL>
              Specify a URL to fetch. This option is mostly handy when you want to specify URL(s) in a config file.

              This option may be used any number of times. To control where this URL is written, use the -o,  --out‐
              put or the -O, --remote-name options.

       -v, --verbose
              Makes the fetching more verbose/talkative. Mostly useful for debugging. A line starting with '>' means
              "header data" sent by curl, '<' means "header data" received by curl that is hidden in  normal  cases,
              and a line starting with '*' means additional info provided by curl.

              Note  that if you only want HTTP headers in the output, -i, --include might be the option you're look‐
              ing for.

              If you think this option still doesn't give you enough details, consider  using  --trace  or  --trace-
              ascii instead.

              This option overrides previous uses of --trace-ascii or --trace.

              Use -s, --silent to make curl quiet.

       -w, --write-out <format>
              Defines  what  to display on stdout after a completed and successful operation. The format is a string
              that may contain plain text mixed with any number  of  variables.  The  string  can  be  specified  as
              "string",  to  get read from a particular file you specify it "@filename" and to tell curl to read the
              format from stdin you write "@-".

              The variables present in the output format will be substituted by the value or text that  curl  thinks
              fit,  as described below. All variables are specified as %{variable_name} and to output a normal % you
              just write them as %%. You can output a newline by using \n, a carriage return with \r and a tab space
              with \t.

              NOTE:  The  %-symbol  is a special symbol in the win32-environment, where all occurrences of % must be
              doubled when using this option.

              The variables available are:

              content_type   The Content-Type of the requested document, if there was any.

              filename_effective
                             The ultimate filename that curl writes out to. This is only meaningful if curl is  told
                             to  write to a file with the --remote-name or --output option. It's most useful in com‐
                             bination with the --remote-header-name option. (Added in 7.25.1)

              ftp_entry_path The initial path curl ended up in when logging on to the remote FTP server.  (Added  in
                             7.15.4)

              http_code      The  numerical  response  code  that  was found in the last retrieved HTTP(S) or FTP(s)
                             transfer. In 7.18.2 the alias response_code was added to show the same info.

              http_connect   The numerical code that was found in the last response (from a proxy) to a curl CONNECT
                             request. (Added in 7.12.4)

              local_ip       The  IP  address  of the local end of the most recently done connection - can be either
                             IPv4 or IPv6 (Added in 7.29.0)

              local_port     The local port number of the most recently done connection (Added in 7.29.0)

              num_connects   Number of new connects made in the recent transfer. (Added in 7.12.3)

              num_redirects  Number of redirects that were followed in the request. (Added in 7.12.3)

              redirect_url   When an HTTP request was made without -L to follow redirects, this variable  will  show
                             the actual URL a redirect would take you to. (Added in 7.18.2)

              remote_ip      The remote IP address of the most recently done connection - can be either IPv4 or IPv6
                             (Added in 7.29.0)

              remote_port    The remote port number of the most recently done connection (Added in 7.29.0)

              size_download  The total amount of bytes that were downloaded.

              size_header    The total amount of bytes of the downloaded headers.

              size_request   The total amount of bytes that were sent in the HTTP request.

              size_upload    The total amount of bytes that were uploaded.

              speed_download The average download speed that curl measured for the complete download. Bytes per sec‐
                             ond.

              speed_upload   The average upload speed that curl measured for the complete upload. Bytes per second.

              ssl_verify_result
                             The  result  of  the  SSL peer certificate verification that was requested. 0 means the
                             verification was successful. (Added in 7.19.0)

              time_appconnect
                             The time, in seconds, it took from the start until the SSL/SSH/etc connect/handshake to
                             the remote host was completed. (Added in 7.19.0)

              time_connect   The  time,  in seconds, it took from the start until the TCP connect to the remote host
                             (or proxy) was completed.

              time_namelookup
                             The time, in seconds, it took from the start until the name resolving was completed.

              time_pretransfer
                             The time, in seconds, it took from the start until the file transfer was just about  to
                             begin.  This  includes  all pre-transfer commands and negotiations that are specific to
                             the particular protocol(s) involved.

              time_redirect  The time, in seconds, it took for all redirection steps include name  lookup,  connect,
                             pretransfer  and transfer before the final transaction was started. time_redirect shows
                             the complete execution time for multiple redirections. (Added in 7.12.3)

              time_starttransfer
                             The time, in seconds, it took from the start until the first byte was just about to  be
                             transferred. This includes time_pretransfer and also the time the server needed to cal‐
                             culate the result.

              time_total     The total time, in seconds, that the full operation lasted. The time will be  displayed
                             with millisecond resolution.

              url_effective  The  URL  that  was fetched last. This is most meaningful if you've told curl to follow
                             location: headers.

       If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       -x, --proxy <[protocol://][user:password@]proxyhost[:port]>
              Use the specified proxy.

              The proxy string can be specified with a protocol:// prefix to specify  alternative  proxy  protocols.
              Use  socks4://,  socks4a://, socks5:// or socks5h:// to request the specific SOCKS version to be used.
              No protocol specified, http:// and all others will be treated as HTTP proxies. (The  protocol  support
              was added in curl 7.21.7)

              If the port number is not specified in the proxy string, it is assumed to be 1080.

              This option overrides existing environment variables that set the proxy to use. If there's an environ‐
              ment variable setting a proxy, you can set proxy to "" to override it.

              All operations that are performed over an HTTP proxy will transparently be converted to HTTP. It means
              that certain protocol specific operations might not be available. This is not the case if you can tun‐
              nel through the proxy, as one with the -p, --proxytunnel option.

              User and password that might be provided in the proxy string are URL decoded by curl. This allows  you
              to pass in special characters such as @ by using %40 or pass in a colon with %3a.

              The  proxy  host can be specified the exact same way as the proxy environment variables, including the
              protocol prefix (http://) and the embedded user + password.

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       -X, --request <command>
              (HTTP) Specifies a custom request method to use when communicating with the HTTP server.   The  speci‐
              fied  request will be used instead of the method otherwise used (which defaults to GET). Read the HTTP
              1.1 specification for details and explanations.  Common  additional  HTTP  requests  include  PUT  and
              DELETE, but related technologies like WebDAV offers PROPFIND, COPY, MOVE and more.

              Normally  you don't need this option. All sorts of GET, HEAD, POST and PUT requests are rather invoked
              by using dedicated command line options.

              This option only changes the actual word used in the HTTP request, it does  not  alter  the  way  curl
              behaves. So for example if you want to make a proper HEAD request, using -X HEAD will not suffice. You
              need to use the -I, --head option.

              (FTP) Specifies a custom FTP command to use instead of LIST when doing file lists with FTP.

              (POP3) Specifies a custom POP3 command to use instead of LIST or RETR. (Added in 7.26.0)

              (IMAP) Specifies a custom IMAP command to use insead of LIST. (Added in 7.30.0)

              (SMTP) Specifies a custom SMTP command to use instead of HELP or VRFY. (Added in 7.34.0)

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       --xattr
              When saving output to a file, this option tells curl to store certain file metadata in  extended  file
              attributes.  Currently,  the  URL is stored in the xdg.origin.url attribute and, for HTTP, the content
              type is stored in the mime_type attribute. If the file system does not support extended attributes,  a
              warning is issued.


       -y, --speed-time <time>
              If  a  download  is  slower than speed-limit bytes per second during a speed-time period, the download
              gets aborted. If speed-time is used, the default speed-limit will be 1 unless set with -Y.

              This option controls transfers and thus will not affect slow connects etc. If this is  a  concern  for
              you, try the --connect-timeout option.

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       -Y, --speed-limit <speed>
              If  a  download  is  slower than this given speed (in bytes per second) for speed-time seconds it gets
              aborted. speed-time is set with -y and is 30 if not set.

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       -z, --time-cond <date expression>|<file>
              (HTTP/FTP) Request a file that has been modified later than the given time and date, or one  that  has
              been  modified  before  that  time.  The  <date  expression> can be all sorts of date strings or if it
              doesn't match any internal ones, it is taken as a filename and tries  to  get  the  modification  date
              (mtime) from <file> instead. See the curl_getdate(3) man pages for date expression details.

              Start  the  date  expression  with a dash (-) to make it request for a document that is older than the
              given date/time, default is a document that is newer than the specified date/time.

              If this option is used several times, the last one will be used.

       -h, --help
              Usage help.

       -M, --manual
              Manual. Display the huge help text.

       -V, --version
              Displays information about curl and the libcurl version it uses.

              The first line includes the full version of curl, libcurl and other 3rd party  libraries  linked  with
              the executable.

              The second line (starts with "Protocols:") shows all protocols that libcurl reports to support.

              The  third  line (starts with "Features:") shows specific features libcurl reports to offer. Available
              features include:

              IPv6   You can use IPv6 with this.

              krb4   Krb4 for FTP is supported.

              SSL    HTTPS and FTPS are supported.

              libz   Automatic decompression of compressed files over HTTP is supported.

              NTLM   NTLM authentication is supported.

              GSS-Negotiate
                     Negotiate authentication and krb5 for FTP is supported.

              Debug  This curl uses a libcurl built with Debug. This enables more error-tracking and  memory  debug‐
                     ging etc. For curl-developers only!

              AsynchDNS
                     This curl uses asynchronous name resolves.

              SPNEGO SPNEGO Negotiate authentication is supported.

              Largefile
                     This curl supports transfers of large files, files larger than 2GB.

              IDN    This curl supports IDN - international domain names.

              SSPI   SSPI  is supported. If you use NTLM and set a blank user name, curl will authenticate with your
                     current user and password.

              TLS-SRP
                     SRP (Secure Remote Password) authentication is supported for TLS.

              Metalink
                     This curl supports Metalink (both version 3 and 4 (RFC  5854)),  which  describes  mirrors  and
                     hashes.  curl will use mirrors for failover if there are errors (such as the file or server not
                     being available).

FILES
       ~/.curlrc
              Default config file, see -K, --config for details.

ENVIRONMENT
       The environment variables can be specified in lower case or upper case. The lower  case  version  has  prece‐
       dence. http_proxy is an exception as it is only available in lower case.

       Using an environment variable to set the proxy has the same effect as using the --proxy option.


       http_proxy [protocol://]<host>[:port]
              Sets the proxy server to use for HTTP.

       HTTPS_PROXY [protocol://]<host>[:port]
              Sets the proxy server to use for HTTPS.

       [url-protocol]_PROXY [protocol://]<host>[:port]
              Sets  the  proxy server to use for [url-protocol], where the protocol is a protocol that curl supports
              and as specified in a URL. FTP, FTPS, POP3, IMAP, SMTP, LDAP etc.

       ALL_PROXY [protocol://]<host>[:port]
              Sets the proxy server to use if no protocol-specific proxy is set.

       NO_PROXY <comma-separated list of hosts>
              list of host names that shouldn't go through any proxy. If set to a asterisk '*' only, it matches  all
              hosts.

PROXY PROTOCOL PREFIXES
       Since curl version 7.21.7, the proxy string may be specified with a protocol:// prefix to specify alternative
       proxy protocols.

       If no protocol is specified in the proxy string or if the string doesn't match a  supported  one,  the  proxy
       will be treated as an HTTP proxy.

       The supported proxy protocol prefixes are as follows:

       socks4://
              Makes it the equivalent of --socks4

       socks4a://
              Makes it the equivalent of --socks4a

       socks5://
              Makes it the equivalent of --socks5

       socks5h://
              Makes it the equivalent of --socks5-hostname

EXIT CODES
       There  are a bunch of different error codes and their corresponding error messages that may appear during bad
       conditions. At the time of this writing, the exit codes are:

       1      Unsupported protocol. This build of curl has no support for this protocol.

       2      Failed to initialize.

       3      URL malformed. The syntax was not correct.

       4      A feature or option that was needed to perform the desired request was not enabled or  was  explicitly
              disabled at build-time. To make curl able to do this, you probably need another build of libcurl!

       5      Couldn't resolve proxy. The given proxy host could not be resolved.

       6      Couldn't resolve host. The given remote host was not resolved.

       7      Failed to connect to host.

       8      FTP weird server reply. The server sent data curl couldn't parse.

       9      FTP  access  denied.  The server denied login or denied access to the particular resource or directory
              you wanted to reach. Most often you tried to change to a directory that doesn't exist on the server.

       11     FTP weird PASS reply. Curl couldn't parse the reply sent to the PASS request.

       13     FTP weird PASV reply, Curl couldn't parse the reply sent to the PASV request.

       14     FTP weird 227 format. Curl couldn't parse the 227-line the server sent.

       15     FTP can't get host. Couldn't resolve the host IP we got in the 227-line.

       17     FTP couldn't set binary. Couldn't change transfer method to binary.

       18     Partial file. Only a part of the file was transferred.

       19     FTP couldn't download/access the given file, the RETR (or similar) command failed.

       21     FTP quote error. A quote command returned error from the server.

       22     HTTP page not retrieved. The requested url was not found or returned another error with the HTTP error
              code being 400 or above. This return code only appears if -f, --fail is used.

       23     Write error. Curl couldn't write data to a local filesystem or similar.

       25     FTP couldn't STOR file. The server denied the STOR operation, used for FTP uploading.

       26     Read error. Various reading problems.

       27     Out of memory. A memory allocation request failed.

       28     Operation timeout. The specified time-out period was reached according to the conditions.

       30     FTP  PORT  failed.  The PORT command failed. Not all FTP servers support the PORT command, try doing a
              transfer using PASV instead!

       31     FTP couldn't use REST. The REST command failed. This command is used for resumed FTP transfers.

       33     HTTP range error. The range "command" didn't work.

       34     HTTP post error. Internal post-request generation error.

       35     SSL connect error. The SSL handshaking failed.

       36     FTP bad download resume. Couldn't continue an earlier aborted download.

       37     FILE couldn't read file. Failed to open the file. Permissions?

       38     LDAP cannot bind. LDAP bind operation failed.

       39     LDAP search failed.

       41     Function not found. A required LDAP function was not found.

       42     Aborted by callback. An application told curl to abort the operation.

       43     Internal error. A function was called with a bad parameter.

       45     Interface error. A specified outgoing interface could not be used.

       47     Too many redirects. When following redirects, curl hit the maximum amount.

       48     Unknown option specified to libcurl. This indicates that you passed a weird option to  curl  that  was
              passed on to libcurl and rejected. Read up in the manual!

       49     Malformed telnet option.

       51     The peer's SSL certificate or SSH MD5 fingerprint was not OK.

       52     The server didn't reply anything, which here is considered an error.

       53     SSL crypto engine not found.

       54     Cannot set SSL crypto engine as default.

       55     Failed sending network data.

       56     Failure in receiving network data.

       58     Problem with the local certificate.

       59     Couldn't use specified SSL cipher.

       60     Peer certificate cannot be authenticated with known CA certificates.

       61     Unrecognized transfer encoding.

       62     Invalid LDAP URL.

       63     Maximum file size exceeded.

       64     Requested FTP SSL level failed.

       65     Sending the data requires a rewind that failed.

       66     Failed to initialise SSL Engine.

       67     The user name, password, or similar was not accepted and curl failed to log in.

       68     File not found on TFTP server.

       69     Permission problem on TFTP server.

       70     Out of disk space on TFTP server.

       71     Illegal TFTP operation.

       72     Unknown TFTP transfer ID.

       73     File already exists (TFTP).

       74     No such user (TFTP).

       75     Character conversion failed.

       76     Character conversion functions required.

       77     Problem with reading the SSL CA cert (path? access rights?).

       78     The resource referenced in the URL does not exist.

       79     An unspecified error occurred during the SSH session.

       80     Failed to shut down the SSL connection.

       82     Could not load CRL file, missing or wrong format (added in 7.19.0).

       83     Issuer check failed (added in 7.19.0).

       84     The FTP PRET command failed

       85     RTSP: mismatch of CSeq numbers

       86     RTSP: mismatch of Session Identifiers

       87     unable to parse FTP file list

       88     FTP chunk callback reported error

       89     No connection available, the session will be queued

       XX     More error codes will appear here in future releases. The existing ones are meant to never change.

AUTHORS / CONTRIBUTORS
       Daniel Stenberg is the main author, but the whole list of contributors is found in the separate THANKS file.

WWW
       http://curl.haxx.se

FTP
       ftp://ftp.sunet.se/pub/www/utilities/curl/

SEE ALSO
       ftp(1), wget(1)



Curl 7.27.0                                         27 July 2012                                             curl(1)
