DEBCONF-APT-PROGRESS(1)                                Debconf                               DEBCONF-APT-PROGRESS(1)



NAME
       debconf-apt-progress - install packages using debconf to display a progress bar

SYNOPSIS
        debconf-apt-progress [--] command [args ...]
        debconf-apt-progress --config
        debconf-apt-progress --start
        debconf-apt-progress --from waypoint --to waypoint [--] command [args ...]
        debconf-apt-progress --stop

DESCRIPTION
       debconf-apt-progress installs packages using debconf to display a progress bar. The given command should be
       any command-line apt frontend; specifically, it must send progress information to the file descriptor
       selected by the "APT::Status-Fd" configuration option, and must keep the file descriptors nominated by the
       "APT::Keep-Fds" configuration option open when invoking debconf (directly or indirectly), as those file
       descriptors will be used for the debconf passthrough protocol.

       The arguments to the command you supply should generally include -y (for apt-get or aptitude) or similar to
       avoid the apt frontend prompting for input. debconf-apt-progress cannot do this itself because the
       appropriate argument may differ between apt frontends.

       The --start, --stop, --from, and --to options may be used to create a progress bar with multiple segments for
       different stages of installation, provided that the caller is a debconf confmodule. The caller may also
       interact with the progress bar itself using the debconf protocol if it so desires.

       debconf locks its config database when it starts up, which makes it unfortunately inconvenient to have one
       instance of debconf displaying the progress bar and another passing through questions from packages being
       installed. If you're using a multiple-segment progress bar, you'll need to eval the output of the --config
       option before starting the debconf frontend to work around this. See "EXAMPLES" in the EXAMPLES section
       below.

OPTIONS
       --config
           Print environment variables necessary to start up a progress bar frontend.

       --start
           Start up a progress bar, running from 0 to 100 by default. Use --from and --to to use other endpoints.

       --from waypoint
           If used with --start, make the progress bar begin at waypoint rather than 0.

           Otherwise, install packages with their progress bar beginning at this "waypoint". Must be used with --to.

       --to waypoint
           If used with --start, make the progress bar end at waypoint rather than 100.

           Otherwise, install packages with their progress bar ending at this "waypoint". Must be used with --from.

       --stop
           Stop a running progress bar.

       --no-progress
           Avoid starting, stopping, or stepping the progress bar. Progress messages from apt, media change events,
           and debconf questions will still be passed through to debconf.

       --dlwaypoint percentage
           Specify what percent of the progress bar to use for downloading packages.  The remainder will be used for
           installing packages. The default is to use 15% for downloading and the remaining 85% for installing.

       --logfile file
           Send the normal output from apt to the given file.

       --logstderr
           Send the normal output from apt to stderr. If you supply neither --logfile nor --logstderr, the normal
           output from apt will be discarded.

       --  Terminate options. Since you will normally need to give at least the -y argument to the command being
           run, you will usually need to use -- to prevent that being interpreted as an option to debconf-apt-
           progress itself.

EXAMPLES
       Install the GNOME desktop and an X window system development environment within a progress bar:

        debconf-apt-progress -- aptitude -y install gnome x-window-system-dev

       Install the GNOME, KDE, and XFCE desktops within a single progress bar, allocating 45% of the progress bar
       for each of GNOME and KDE and the remaining 10% for XFCE:

        #! /bin/sh
        set -e
        case $1 in
          '')
            eval "$(debconf-apt-progress --config)"
            "$0" debconf
            ;;
          debconf)
            . /usr/share/debconf/confmodule
            debconf-apt-progress --start
            debconf-apt-progress --from 0 --to 45 -- apt-get -y install gnome
            debconf-apt-progress --from 45 --to 90 -- apt-get -y install kde
            debconf-apt-progress --from 90 --to 100 -- apt-get -y install xfce4
            debconf-apt-progress --stop
            ;;
        esac

RETURN CODE
       The exit code of the specified command is returned, unless the user hit the cancel button on the progress
       bar. If the cancel button was hit, a value of 30 is returned. To avoid ambiguity, if the command returned 30,
       a value of 3 will be returned.

AUTHORS
       Colin Watson <cjwatson@debian.org>

       Joey Hess <joeyh@debian.org>



                                                     2011-06-22                              DEBCONF-APT-PROGRESS(1)
