DIALOG(1)                                      General Commands Manual                                     DIALOG(1)



NAME
       dialog - display dialog boxes from shell scripts

SYNOPSIS
       dialog --clear
       dialog --create-rc file
       dialog --print-maxsize
       dialog common-options box-options

DESCRIPTION
       Dialog  is  a  program  that  will let you to present a variety of questions or display messages using dialog
       boxes from a shell script.  These types of dialog boxes are implemented (though not all are necessarily  com‐
       piled into dialog):

              buildlist, calendar, checklist, dselect, editbox, form, fselect, gauge, infobox, inputbox, inputmenu,
              menu, mixedform, mixedgauge, msgbox (message), passwordbox, passwordform, pause, prgbox, programbox,
              progressbox, radiolist, rangebox, tailbox, tailboxbg, textbox, timebox, treeview, and yesno (yes/no).

       You can put more than one dialog box into a script:

       ·   Use the "--and-widget" token to force dialog to proceed to the next dialog unless you have pressed ESC to
           cancel, or

       ·   Simply add the tokens for the next dialog box, making a chain.  Dialog stops  chaining  when  the  return
           code from a dialog is nonzero, e.g., Cancel or No (see DIAGNOSTICS).

       Some  widgets, e.g., checklist, will write text to dialog's output.  Normally that is the standard error, but
       there are options for changing this: "--output-fd", "--stderr" and "--stdout".  No text  is  written  if  the
       Cancel button (or ESC) is pressed; dialog exits immediately in that case.

OPTIONS
       All  options  begin with "--" (two ASCII hyphens, for the benefit of those using systems with deranged locale
       support).

       A "--" by itself is used as an escape, i.e., the next token on the command-line is not treated as an option.
              dialog --title -- --Not an option

       The "--args" option tells dialog to list the command-line parameters to the standard error.  This  is  useful
       when  debugging complex scripts using the "--" and "--file", since the command-line may be rewritten as these
       are expanded.

       The "--file" option tells dialog to read parameters from the file named as its value.
              dialog --file parameterfile
       Blanks not within double-quotes are discarded (use backslashes to quote single characters).   The  result  is
       inserted  into the command-line, replacing "--file" and its option value.  Interpretation of the command-line
       resumes from that point.  If parameterfile begins with "&", dialog interprets the following text  as  a  file
       descriptor number rather than a filename.

   Common Options
       --ascii-lines
              Rather  than  draw  graphics  lines  around boxes, draw ASCII "+" and "-" in the same place.  See also
              "--no-lines".

       --aspect ratio
              This gives you some control over the box dimensions when using auto sizing (specifying  0  for  height
              and width).  It represents width / height.  The default is 9, which means 9 characters wide to every 1
              line high.

       --backtitle backtitle
              Specifies a backtitle string to be displayed on the backdrop, at the top of the screen.

       --begin y x
              Specify the position of the upper left corner of a dialog box on the screen.

       --cancel-label string
              Override the label used for "Cancel" buttons.

       --clear
              Clears the widget screen, keeping only the screen_color background.  Use this when you combine widgets
              with  "--and-widget" to erase the contents of a previous widget on the screen, so it won't be seen un‐
              der the contents of a following widget.  Understand this as the  complement  of  "--keep-window".   To
              compare the effects, use these:

              All three widgets visible, staircase effect, ordered 1,2,3:

              dialog \
                                             --begin 2 2 --yesno "" 0 0 \
                  --and-widget               --begin 4 4 --yesno "" 0 0 \
                  --and-widget               --begin 6 6 --yesno "" 0 0

              Only the last widget is left visible:

              dialog \
                               --clear       --begin 2 2 --yesno "" 0 0 \
                  --and-widget --clear       --begin 4 4 --yesno "" 0 0 \
                  --and-widget               --begin 6 6 --yesno "" 0 0

              All three widgets visible, staircase effect, ordered 3,2,1:

              dialog \
                               --keep-window --begin 2 2 --yesno "" 0 0 \
                  --and-widget --keep-window --begin 4 4 --yesno "" 0 0 \
                  --and-widget               --begin 6 6 --yesno "" 0 0

              First and third widget visible, staircase effect, ordered 3,1:

              dialog \
                               --keep-window --begin 2 2 --yesno "" 0 0 \
                  --and-widget --clear       --begin 4 4 --yesno "" 0 0 \
                  --and-widget               --begin 6 6 --yesno "" 0 0

              Note,  if  you want to restore original console colors and send your cursor home after the dialog pro‐
              gram has exited, use the clear (1) command.

       --colors
              Interpret embedded "\Z" sequences in the dialog text by the following character, which tells dialog to
              set  colors  or  video attributes: 0 through 7 are the ANSI used in curses: black, red, green, yellow,
              blue, magenta, cyan and white respectively.  Bold is set by 'b', reset by 'B'.  Reverse is set by 'r',
              reset  by  'R'.   Underline  is set by 'u', reset by 'U'.  The settings are cumulative, e.g., "\Zb\Z1"
              makes the following text bold (perhaps bright) red.  Restore normal settings with "\Zn".

       --column-separator string
              Tell dialog to split data for radio/checkboxes and menus on the occurrences of the given  string,  and
              to align the split data into columns.

       --cr-wrap
              Interpret embedded newlines in the dialog text as a newline on the screen.  Otherwise, dialog will on‐
              ly wrap lines where needed to fit inside the text box.

              Even though you can control line breaks with this, Dialog will still wrap any lines that are too  long
              for  the  width of the box.  Without cr-wrap, the layout of your text may be formatted to look nice in
              the source code of your script without affecting the way it will look in the dialog.

              See also the "--no-collapse" and "--trim" options.

       --create-rc file
              When dialog supports run-time configuration, this can be used to dump a sample configuration  file  to
              the file specified by file.

       --date-format format
              If  the  host  provides strftime, this option allows you to specify the format of the date printed for
              the --calendar widget.  The time of day (hour, minute, second) are the current local time.

       --defaultno
              Make the default value of the yes/no box a No.  Likewise, make the default button of widgets that pro‐
              vide "OK" and "Cancel" a Cancel.  If "--nocancel" or "--visit-items" are given those options overrides
              this, making the default button always "Yes" (internally the same as "OK").

       --default-button string
              Set the default (preselected) button in a widget.  By preselecting a button, a script makes it  possi‐
              ble for the user to simply press Enter to proceed through a dialog with minimum interaction.

              The option's value is the name of the button: ok, yes, cancel, no, help or extra.

              Normally  the first button in each widget is the default.  The first button shown is determined by the
              widget together with the "--nook" and "--nocancel options.  If this option is not given, there  is  no
              default button assigned.

       --default-item string
              Set  the default item in a checklist, form or menu box.  Normally the first item in the box is the de‐
              fault.

       --exit-label string
              Override the label used for "EXIT" buttons.

       --extra-button
              Show an extra button, between "OK" and "Cancel" buttons.

       --extra-label string
              Override the label used for "Extra" buttons.  Note: for inputmenu widgets, this defaults to "Rename".

       --help Prints the help message to the standard output and exits.  The help message is also printed if no  op‐
              tions are given, or if an unrecognized option is given.

       --help-button
              Show a help-button after "OK" and "Cancel" buttons, i.e., in checklist, radiolist and menu boxes.

              On  exit,  the return status will indicate that the Help button was pressed.  Dialog will also write a
              message to its output after the token "HELP":

              ·   If "--item-help" is also given, the item-help text will be written.

              ·   Otherwise, the item's tag (the first field) will be written.

              You can use the --help-tags option and/or set the  DIALOG_ITEM_HELP  environment  variable  to  modify
              these messages and exit-status.

       --help-label string
              Override the label used for "Help" buttons.

       --help-status
              If  the  help-button  is selected, writes the checklist, radiolist or form information after the item-
              help "HELP" information.  This can be used to reconstruct the state of a  checklist  after  processing
              the help request.

       --help-tags
              Modify the messages written on exit for --help-button by making them always just the item's tag.  This
              does not affect the exit status code.

       --hfile filename
              Display the given file using a textbox when the user presses F1.

       --hline string
              Display the given string centered at the bottom of the widget.

       --ignore
              Ignore options that dialog does not recognize.  Some well-known ones such as "--icon" are ignored any‐
              way, but this is a better choice for compatibility with other implementations.

       --input-fd fd
              Read keyboard input from the given file descriptor.  Most dialog scripts read from the standard input,
              but the gauge widget reads a pipe (which is always standard input).  Some configurations do  not  work
              properly  when  dialog  tries  to  reopen the terminal.  Use this option (with appropriate juggling of
              file-descriptors) if your script must work in that type of environment.

       --insecure
              Makes the password widget friendlier but less secure, by echoing asterisks for each character.

       --item-help
              Interpret the tags data for checklist, radiolist and menu boxes adding a column which is displayed  in
              the bottom line of the screen, for the currently selected item.

       --keep-tite
              When  built with ncurses, dialog normally checks to see if it is running in an xterm, and in that case
              tries to suppress the initialization strings that would  make  it  switch  to  the  alternate  screen.
              Switching between the normal and alternate screens is visually distracting in a script which runs dia‐
              log several times.  Use this option to allow dialog to use those initialization strings.

       --keep-window
              Normally when dialog performs several tailboxbg widgets connected by "--and-widget", it clears the old
              widget from the screen by painting over it.  Use this option to suppress that repainting.

              At  exit, dialog repaints all of the widgets which have been marked with "--keep-window", even if they
              are not tailboxbg widgets.  That causes them to be repainted in reverse order.  See the discussion  of
              the "--clear" option for examples.

       --last-key
              At exit, report the last key which the user entered.  This is the curses key code rather than a symbol
              or literal character.  It can be used by scripts to distinguish between two keys which  are  bound  to
              the same action.

       --max-input size
              Limit input strings to the given size.  If not specified, the limit is 2048.

       --no-cancel

       --nocancel
              Suppress  the  "Cancel"  button in checklist, inputbox and menu box modes.  A script can still test if
              the user pressed the ESC key to cancel to quit.

       --no-collapse
              Normally dialog converts tabs to spaces and reduces multiple spaces to a single space for  text  which
              is displayed in a message boxes, etc.  Use this option to disable that feature.  Note that dialog will
              still wrap text, subject to the "--cr-wrap" and "--trim" options.

       --no-items
              Some widgets (checklist, inputmenu, radiolist, menu) display a list with  two  columns  (a  "tag"  and
              "item", i.e., "description").  This option tells dialog to read shorter rows, omitting the "item" part
              of the list.  This is occasionally useful, e.g., if the tags provide enough information.

              See also --no-tags.  If both options are given, this one is ignored.

       --no-kill
              Tells dialog to put the tailboxbg box in the background, printing its process id to  dialog's  output.
              SIGHUP is disabled for the background process.

       --no-label string
              Override the label used for "No" buttons.

       --no-lines
              Rather than draw lines around boxes, draw spaces in the same place.  See also "--ascii-lines".

       --no-mouse
              Do not enable the mouse.

       --no-nl-expand
              Do not convert "\n" substrings of the message/prompt text into literal newlines.

       --no-ok

       --nook Suppress  the  "OK"  button in checklist, inputbox and menu box modes.  A script can still test if the
              user pressed the "Enter" key to accept the data.

       --no-shadow
              Suppress shadows that would be drawn to the right and bottom of each dialog box.

       --no-tags
              Some widgets (checklist, inputmenu, radiolist, menu) display a list with two columns (a "tag" and "de‐
              scription").   The tag is useful for scripting, but may not help the user.  The --no-tags option (from
              Xdialog) may be used to suppress the column of tags from the display.  Unlike the  --no-items  option,
              this does not affect the data which is read from the script.

              Xdialog  does not display the tag column for the analogous buildlist and treeview widgets; dialog does
              the same.

              Normally dialog allows you to quickly move to entries on the displayed  list,  by  matching  a  single
              character  to  the  first  character  of  the tag.  When the --no-tags option is given, dialog matches
              against the first character of the description.  In either case, the matchable character is highlight‐
              ed.

       --ok-label string
              Override the label used for "OK" buttons.

       --output-fd fd
              Direct  output to the given file descriptor.  Most dialog scripts write to the standard error, but er‐
              ror messages may also be written there, depending on your script.

       --separator string

       --output-separatorstring
              Specify a string that will separate the output on dialog's output from checklists, rather than a  new‐
              line  (for  --separate-output)  or a space.  This applies to other widgets such as forms and editboxes
              which normally use a newline.

       --print-maxsize
              Print the maximum size of dialog boxes, i.e., the screen size, to dialog's output.  This may  be  used
              alone, without other options.

       --print-size
              Prints the size of each dialog box to dialog's output.

       --print-version
              Prints  dialog's  version to dialog's output.  This may be used alone, without other options.  It does
              not cause dialog to exit by itself.

       --quoted
              Normally dialog quotes the strings returned by checklist's as well as the item-help  text.   Use  this
              option to quote all string results.

       --scrollbar
              For widgets holding a scrollable set of data, draw a scrollbar on its right-margin.  This does not re‐
              spond to the mouse.

       --separate-output
              For checklist widgets, output result one line at a time, with no quoting.  This facilitates parsing by
              another program.

       --separate-widget string
              Specify  a  string that will separate the output on dialog's output from each widget.  This is used to
              simplify parsing the result of a dialog with several widgets.  If this option is not  given,  the  de‐
              fault separator string is a tab character.

       --shadow
              Draw a shadow to the right and bottom of each dialog box.

       --single-quoted
              Use  single-quoting as needed (and no quotes if unneeded) for the output of checklist's as well as the
              item-help text.  If this option is not set, dialog uses double quotes around  each  item.   In  either
              case, dialog adds backslashes to make the output useful in shell scripts.

       --size-err
              Check the resulting size of a dialog box before trying to use it, printing the resulting size if it is
              larger than the screen.  (This option is obsolete, since all new-window calls are checked).

       --sleep secs
              Sleep (delay) for the given number of seconds after processing a dialog box.

       --stderr
              Direct output to the standard error.  This is the default, since curses normally writes screen updates
              to the standard output.

       --stdout
              Direct output to the standard output.  This option is provided for compatibility with Xdialog, however
              using it in portable scripts is not recommended, since curses normally writes its  screen  updates  to
              the  standard  output.  If you use this option, dialog attempts to reopen the terminal so it can write
              to the display.  Depending on the platform and your environment, that may fail.

       --tab-correct
              Convert each tab character to one or more spaces (for  the  textbox  widget;  otherwise  to  a  single
              space).  Otherwise, tabs are rendered according to the curses library's interpretation.

       --tab-len n
              Specify  the  number  of  spaces that a tab character occupies if the "--tab-correct" option is given.
              The default is 8.  This option is only effective for the textbox widget.

       --time-format format
              If the host provides strftime, this option allows you to specify the format of the  time  printed  for
              the --timebox widget.  The day, month, year values in this case are for the current local time.

       --timeout secs
              Timeout  (exit  with error code) if no user response within the given number of seconds.  A timeout of
              zero seconds is ignored.

              This option is ignored by the "--pause" widget.  It is also overridden if the background "--tailboxbg"
              option is used to setup multiple concurrent widgets.

       --title title
              Specifies a title string to be displayed at the top of the dialog box.

       --trace filename
              logs the command-line parameters, keystrokes and other information to the given file.  If dialog reads
              a configure file, it is logged as well.  Piped input to the gauge widget is logged.  Use control/T  to
              log a picture of the current dialog window.

       The  dialog  program handles some command-line parameters specially, and removes them from the parameter list
       as they are processed.  For example, if the first option is --trace, then that is processed (and removed) be‐
       fore dialog initializes the display.

       --trim eliminate leading blanks, trim literal newlines and repeated blanks from message text.

              See also the "--cr-wrap" and "--no-collapse" options.

       --version
              Prints dialog's version to the standard output, and exits.  See also "--print-version".

       --visit-items
              Modify  the  tab-traversal of checklist, radiolist, menubox and inputmenu to include the list of items
              as one of the states.  This is useful as a visual aid, i.e., the cursor position helps some users.

              When this option is given, the cursor is initially placed on the list.  Abbreviations (the first  let‐
              ter  of  the  tag)  apply to the list items.  If you tab to the button row, abbreviations apply to the
              buttons.

       --yes-label string
              Override the label used for "Yes" buttons.

   Box Options
       All dialog boxes have at least three parameters:

       text the caption or contents of the box.

       height
            the height of the dialog box.

       width
            the width of the dialog box.

       Other parameters depend on the box type.

       --buildlist text height width [ tag item status ] ...
              A buildlist dialog displays two lists, side-by-side.  The list on the  left  shows  unselected  items.
              The  list  on  the right shows selected items.  As items are selected or unselected, they move between
              the lists.

              Use a carriage return or the "OK" button to accept the current value in the selected-window and  exit.
              The results are written using the order displayed in the selected-window.

              The initial on/off state of each entry is specified by status.

              The  dialog  behaves  like a menu, using the --visit-items to control whether the cursor is allowed to
              visit the lists directly.

              ·   If --visit-items is not given, tab-traversal uses two states (OK/Cancel).

              ·   If --visit-items is given, tab-traversal uses four states (Left/Right/OK/Cancel).

              Whether or not --visit--items is given, it is possible to move the highlight between the two lists us‐
              ing the default "^" (left-column) and "$" (right-column) keys.

              On  exit,  a  list  of the tag strings of those entries that are turned on will be printed on dialog's
              output.

              If the "--separate-output" option is not given, the strings will be quoted as needed to make it simple
              for scripts to separate them.  By default, this uses double-quotes.  See the "--single-quoted" option,
              which modifies the quoting behavior.

       --calendar text height width day month year
              A calendar box displays month, day and year in separately adjustable windows.  If the values for  day,
              month  or year are missing or negative, the current date's corresponding values are used.  You can in‐
              crement or decrement any of those using the left-, up-, right- and down-arrows.  Use vi-style h, j,  k
              and l for moving around the array of days in a month.  Use tab or backtab to move between windows.  If
              the year is given as zero, the current date is used as an initial value.

              On exit, the date is printed in the form day/month/year.  The  format  can  be  overridden  using  the
              --date-format option.

       --checklist text height width list-height [ tag item status ] ...
              A  checklist box is similar to a menu box; there are multiple entries presented in the form of a menu.
              Another difference is that you can indicate which entry is currently selected, by setting  its  status
              to on.  Instead of choosing one entry among the entries, each entry can be turned on or off by the us‐
              er.  The initial on/off state of each entry is specified by status.

              On exit, a list of the tag strings of those entries that are turned on will  be  printed  on  dialog's
              output.

              If the "--separate-output" option is not given, the strings will be quoted as needed to make it simple
              for scripts to separate them.  By default, this uses double-quotes.  See the "--single-quoted" option,
              which modifies the quoting behavior.

       --dselect filepath height width
              The  directory-selection  dialog  displays  a text-entry window in which you can type a directory, and
              above that a windows with directory names.

              Here filepath can be a filepath in which case the directory window will display the  contents  of  the
              path and the text-entry window will contain the preselected directory.

              Use tab or arrow keys to move between the windows.  Within the directory window, use the up/down arrow
              keys to scroll the current selection.  Use the space-bar to copy the current selection into the  text-
              entry window.

              Typing  any  printable  characters switches focus to the text-entry window, entering that character as
              well as scrolling the directory window to the closest match.

              Use a carriage return or the "OK" button to accept the current value in the text-entry window and  ex‐
              it.

              On exit, the contents of the text-entry window are written to dialog's output.

       --editbox filepath height width
              The edit-box dialog displays a copy of the file.  You may edit it using the backspace, delete and cur‐
              sor keys to correct typing errors.  It also recognizes pageup/pagedown.  Unlike  the  --inputbox,  you
              must tab to the "OK" or "Cancel" buttons to close the dialog.  Pressing the "Enter" key within the box
              will split the corresponding line.

              On exit, the contents of the edit window are written to dialog's output.

       --form text height width formheight [ label y x item y x flen ilen ] ...
              The form dialog displays a form consisting of labels and fields, which are positioned on a  scrollable
              window  by coordinates given in the script.  The field length flen and input-length ilen tell how long
              the field can be.  The former defines the length shown for a selected field, while the latter  defines
              the permissible length of the data entered in the field.

              ·   If  flen is zero, the corresponding field cannot be altered.  and the contents of the field deter‐
                  mine the displayed-length.

              ·   If flen is negative, the corresponding field cannot be altered, and the negated value of  flen  is
                  used as the displayed-length.

              ·   If ilen is zero, it is set to flen.

              Use up/down arrows (or control/N, control/P) to move between fields.  Use tab to move between windows.

              On  exit,  the  contents  of the form-fields are written to dialog's output, each field separated by a
              newline.  The text used to fill non-editable fields (flen is zero or negative) is not written out.

       --fselect filepath height width
              The fselect (file-selection) dialog displays a text-entry window in which you can type a filename  (or
              directory), and above that two windows with directory names and filenames.

              Here filepath can be a filepath in which case the file and directory windows will display the contents
              of the path and the text-entry window will contain the preselected filename.

              Use tab or arrow keys to move between the windows.  Within the directory or filename windows, use  the
              up/down  arrow  keys to scroll the current selection.  Use the space-bar to copy the current selection
              into the text-entry window.

              Typing any printable characters switches focus to the text-entry window, entering  that  character  as
              well as scrolling the directory and filename windows to the closest match.

              Typing the space character forces dialog to complete the current name (up to the point where there may
              be a match against more than one entry).

              Use a carriage return or the "OK" button to accept the current value in the text-entry window and  ex‐
              it.

              On exit, the contents of the text-entry window are written to dialog's output.

       --gauge text height width [percent]
              A  gauge  box  displays a meter along the bottom of the box.  The meter indicates the percentage.  New
              percentages are read from standard input, one integer per line.  The meter is updated to reflect  each
              new  percentage.  If the standard input reads the string "XXX", then the first line following is taken
              as an integer percentage, then subsequent lines up to another "XXX" are used for a  new  prompt.   The
              gauge exits when EOF is reached on the standard input.

              The percent value denotes the initial percentage shown in the meter.  If not specified, it is zero.

              On  exit,  no  text is written to dialog's output.  The widget accepts no input, so the exit status is
              always OK.

       --infobox text height width
              An info box is basically a message box.  However, in this case, dialog  will  exit  immediately  after
              displaying  the message to the user.  The screen is not cleared when dialog exits, so that the message
              will remain on the screen until the calling shell script clears it later.  This  is  useful  when  you
              want to inform the user that some operations are carrying on that may require some time to finish.

              On exit, no text is written to dialog's output.  Only an "OK" button is provided for input, but an ESC
              exit status may be returned.

       --inputbox text height width [init]
              An input box is useful when you want to ask questions that require the user to input a string  as  the
              answer.  If init is supplied it is used to initialize the input string.  When entering the string, the
              backspace, delete and cursor keys can be used to correct typing errors.  If the input string is longer
              than can fit in the dialog box, the input field will be scrolled.

              On exit, the input string will be printed on dialog's output.

       --inputmenu text height width menu-height [ tag item ] ...
              An  inputmenu  box  is very similar to an ordinary menu box.  There are only a few differences between
              them:

              1.  The entries are not automatically centered but left adjusted.

              2.  An extra button (called Rename) is implied to rename the current item when it is pressed.

              3.  It is possible to rename the current entry by pressing the Rename button.  Then dialog will  write
                  the following on dialog's output.

                  RENAMED <tag> <item>

       --menu text height width menu-height [ tag item ] ...
              As  its name suggests, a menu box is a dialog box that can be used to present a list of choices in the
              form of a menu for the user to choose.  Choices are displayed in the order  given.   Each  menu  entry
              consists  of  a  tag string and an item string.  The tag gives the entry a name to distinguish it from
              the other entries in the menu.  The item is a short description of the option that  the  entry  repre‐
              sents.   The  user  can move between the menu entries by pressing the cursor keys, the first letter of
              the tag as a hot-key, or the number keys 1-9. There are menu-height entries displayed in the  menu  at
              one time, but the menu will be scrolled if there are more entries than that.

              On  exit  the tag of the chosen menu entry will be printed on dialog's output.  If the "--help-button"
              option is given, the corresponding help text will be printed if the user selects the help button.

       --mixedform text height width formheight [ label y x item y x flen ilen itype ] ...
              The mixedform dialog displays a form consisting of labels and fields, much like the --form dialog.  It
              differs by adding a field-type parameter to each field's description.  Each bit in the type denotes an
              attribute of the field:

              1    hidden, e.g., a password field.

              2    readonly, e.g., a label.

       --mixedgauge text height width percent [ tag1 item1 ] ...
              A mixedgauge box displays a meter along the bottom of the box.  The meter indicates the percentage.

              It also displays a list of the tag- and item-values at the top of the box.  See dialog(3) for the  tag
              values.

              The text is shown as a caption between the list and meter.  The percent value denotes the initial per‐
              centage shown in the meter.

              No provision is made for reading data from the standard input as --gauge does.

              On exit, no text is written to dialog's output.  The widget accepts no input, so the  exit  status  is
              always OK.

       --msgbox text height width
              A message box is very similar to a yes/no box.  The only difference between a message box and a yes/no
              box is that a message box has only a single OK button.  You can use this dialog  box  to  display  any
              message you like.  After reading the message, the user can press the ENTER key so that dialog will ex‐
              it and the calling shell script can continue its operation.

              If the message is too large for the space, dialog may allow you to scroll it, provided that the under‐
              lying curses implementation is capable enough.  In this case, a percentage is shown in the base of the
              widget.

              On exit, no text is written to dialog's output.  Only an "OK" button is provided for input, but an ESC
              exit status may be returned.

       --pause text height width seconds
              A pause box displays a meter along the bottom of the box.  The meter indicates how many seconds remain
              until the end of the pause.  The pause exits when timeout is reached or the user presses the OK button
              (status OK) or the user presses the CANCEL button or Esc key.

       --passwordbox text height width [init]
              A  password  box  is  similar  to an input box, except that the text the user enters is not displayed.
              This is useful when prompting for passwords or other sensitive information.  Be aware that if anything
              is passed in "init", it will be visible in the system's process table to casual snoopers.  Also, it is
              very confusing to the user to provide them with a default password they cannot see.   For  these  rea‐
              sons, using "init" is highly discouraged.  See "--insecure" if you do not care about your password.

              On exit, the input string will be printed on dialog's output.

       --passwordform text height width formheight [ label y x item y x flen ilen ] ...
              This  is  identical  to --form except that all text fields are treated as password widgets rather than
              inputbox widgets.

       --prgbox text command height width

       --prgbox command height width
              A prgbox is very similar to a programbox.

              This dialog box is used to display the output of a command that is specified as an argument to prgbox.

              After the command completes, the user can press the ENTER key so that dialog will exit and the calling
              shell script can continue its operation.

              If  three  parameters  are  given, it displays the text under the title, delineated from the scrolling
              file's contents.  If only two parameters are given, this text is omitted.

       --programbox text height width

       --programbox height width
              A programbox is very similar to a progressbox.  The only  difference  between  a  program  box  and  a
              progress box is that a program box displays an OK button (but only after the command completes).

              This  dialog  box  is used to display the piped output of a command.  After the command completes, the
              user can press the ENTER key so that dialog will exit and the calling shell script  can  continue  its
              operation.

              If  three  parameters  are  given, it displays the text under the title, delineated from the scrolling
              file's contents.  If only two parameters are given, this text is omitted.

       --progressbox text height width

       --progressbox height width
              A progressbox is similar to an tailbox, except that

              a) rather than displaying the contents of a file,
                 it displays the piped output of a command and

              b) it will exit when it reaches the end of the file
                 (there is no "OK" button).

              If three parameters are given, it displays the text under the title,  delineated  from  the  scrolling
              file's contents.  If only two parameters are given, this text is omitted.

       --radiolist text height width list-height  [ tag item status ] ...
              A radiolist box is similar to a menu box.  The only difference is that you can indicate which entry is
              currently selected, by setting its status to on.

              On exit, the tag of the selected item is written to dialog's output.

       --tailbox file height width
              Display text from a file in a dialog box, as in a "tail -f" command.  Scroll left/right using vi-style
              'h' and 'l', or arrow-keys.  A '0' resets the scrolling.

              On exit, no text is written to dialog's output.  Only an "OK" button is provided for input, but an ESC
              exit status may be returned.

       --rangebox text height width list-height min-value max-value default-value
              Allow the user to select from a range of values, e.g., using a slider.  The dialog shows  the  current
              value  as  a  bar (like the gauge dialog).  Tabs or arrow keys move the cursor between the buttons and
              the value.  When the cursor is on the value, you can edit it by:

              left/right cursor movement to select a digit to modify

              +/-  characters to increment/decrement the digit by one

              0 through 9
                   to set the digit to the given value

              Some keys are also recognized in all cursor positions:

              home/end
                   set the value to its maximum or minimum

              pageup/pagedown
                   increment the value so that the slider moves by one column

       --tailboxbg file height width
              Display text from a file in a dialog box as a background task, as in a "tail -f  &"  command.   Scroll
              left/right using vi-style 'h' and 'l', or arrow-keys.  A '0' resets the scrolling.

              Dialog  treats  the  background task specially if there are other widgets (--and-widget) on the screen
              concurrently.  Until those widgets are closed (e.g., an "OK"), dialog will perform all  of  the  tail‐
              boxbg  widgets  in  the  same process, polling for updates.  You may use a tab to traverse between the
              widgets on the screen, and close them individually, e.g., by pressing ENTER.  Once  the  non-tailboxbg
              widgets  are  closed,  dialog forks a copy of itself into the background, and prints its process id if
              the "--no-kill" option is given.

              On exit, no text is written to dialog's output.  Only an "EXIT" button is provided for input,  but  an
              ESC exit status may be returned.

              NOTE:  Older  versions  of  dialog forked immediately and attempted to update the screen individually.
              Besides being bad for performance, it was unworkable.  Some older scripts may not work  properly  with
              the polled scheme.

       --textbox file height width
              A  text  box  lets  you display the contents of a text file in a dialog box.  It is like a simple text
              file viewer.  The user can move through the file by using the cursor, page-up, page-down and  HOME/END
              keys  available  on  most  keyboards.   If  the  lines  are  too  long to be displayed in the box, the
              LEFT/RIGHT keys can be used to scroll the text region horizontally.  You may also use vi-style keys h,
              j,  k,  l  in place of the cursor keys, and B or N in place of the page-up and page-down keys.  Scroll
              up/down using vi-style 'k' and 'j', or arrow-keys.  Scroll left/right using vi-style 'h' and  'l',  or
              arrow-keys.   A '0' resets the left/right scrolling.  For more convenience, vi-style forward and back‐
              ward searching functions are also provided.

              On exit, no text is written to dialog's output.  Only an "EXIT" button is provided for input,  but  an
              ESC exit status may be returned.

       --timebox text height [width hour minute second]
              A  dialog  is  displayed  which allows you to select hour, minute and second.  If the values for hour,
              minute or second are missing or negative, the current date's corresponding values are used.   You  can
              increment  or decrement any of those using the left-, up-, right- and down-arrows.  Use tab or backtab
              to move between windows.

              On exit, the result is printed in the form hour:minute:second.  The format can be overridden using the
              --time-format option.

       --treeview text height width list-height [ tag item status depth ] ...
              Display  data  organized  as  a  tree.  Each group of data contains a tag, the text to display for the
              item, its status ("on" or "off") and the depth of the item in the tree.

              Only one item can be selected (like the radiolist).  The tag is not displayed.

              On exit, the tag of the selected item is written to dialog's output.

       --yesno text height width
              A yes/no dialog box of size height rows by width columns will be displayed.  The string  specified  by
              text  is  displayed  inside the dialog box.  If this string is too long to fit in one line, it will be
              automatically divided into multiple lines at appropriate places.  The text string can also contain the
              sub-string  "\n"  or  newline characters `\n' to control line breaking explicitly.  This dialog box is
              useful for asking questions that require the user to answer either yes or no.  The dialog  box  has  a
              Yes button and a No button, in which the user can switch between by pressing the TAB key.

              On exit, no text is written to dialog's output.  In addition to the "Yes" and "No" exit codes (see DI‐
              AGNOSTICS) an ESC exit status may be returned.

              The codes used for "Yes" and "No" match those used for "OK" and "Cancel", internally no distinction is
              made.

   Obsolete Options
       --beep This  was  used to tell the original cdialog that it should make a beep when the separate processes of
              the tailboxbg widget would repaint the screen.

       --beep-after
              Beep after a user has completed a widget by pressing one of the buttons.

RUN-TIME CONFIGURATION
       1.  Create a sample configuration file by typing:

                 "dialog --create-rc <file>"

       2.  At start, dialog determines the settings to use as follows:

           a)  if environment variable DIALOGRC is set, its value determines the name of the configuration file.

           b)  if the file in (a) is not found, use the file $HOME/.dialogrc as the configuration file.

           c)  if the file in (b) is not found, try using  the  GLOBALRC  file  determined  at  compile-time,  i.e.,
               /etc/dialogrc.

           d)  if the file in (c) is not found, use compiled in defaults.

       3.  Edit  the  sample  configuration file and copy it to some place that dialog can find, as stated in step 2
           above.

KEY BINDINGS
       You can override or add to key bindings in dialog by adding to the configuration file.  Dialog's bindkey com‐
       mand maps single keys to its internal coding.

              bindkey widget curses_key dialog_key

       The  widget  name  can  be  "*" (all widgets), or specific widgets such as textbox.  Specific widget bindings
       override the "*" bindings.  User-defined bindings override the built-in bindings.

       The curses_key can be any of the names derived from curses.h, e.g., "HELP" from "KEY_HELP".  Dialog also rec‐
       ognizes  ANSI  control characters such as "^A", "^?", as well as C1-controls such as "~A" and "~?".  Finally,
       it allows any single character to be escaped with a backslash.

       Dialog's internal keycode names correspond to the DLG_KEYS_ENUM type in dlg_keys.h, e.g.,  "HELP"  from  "DL‐
       GK_HELP".

   Widget Names
       Some widgets (such as the formbox) have an area where fields can be edited.  Those are managed in a subwindow
       of the widget, and may have separate keybindings from the main widget because the subwindows  are  registered
       using a different name.

                                        Widget        Window name   Subwindow Name
                                        calendar      calendar
                                        checklist     checklist
                                        editbox       editbox       editbox2
                                        form          formbox       formfield
                                        fselect       fselect       fselect2
                                        inputbox      inputbox      inputbox2
                                        menu          menubox       menu
                                        msgbox        msgbox
                                        pause         pause
                                        progressbox   progressbox
                                        radiolist     radiolist
                                        tailbox       tailbox
                                        textbox       textbox       searchbox
                                        timebox       timebox
                                        yesno         yesno

       Some  widgets are actually other widgets, using internal settings to modify the behavior.  Those use the same
       widget name as the actual widget:

                                               Widget         Actual Widget

                                               dselect        fselect
                                               infobox        msgbox
                                               inputmenu      menu
                                               mixedform      form
                                               passwordbox    inputbox
                                               passwordform   form
                                               prgbox         progressbox
                                               programbox     progressbox
                                               tailboxbg      tailbox

   Built-in Bindings
       This manual page does not list the key bindings for each widget, because that detailed information can be ob‐
       tained  by running dialog.  If you have set the --trace option, dialog writes the key-binding information for
       each widget as it is registered.

   Example
       Normally dialog uses different keys for navigating between the buttons and editing part of  a  dialog  versus
       navigating within the editing part.  That is, tab (and back-tab) traverse buttons (or between buttons and the
       editing part), while arrow keys traverse fields within the editing part.  Tabs are also recognized as a  spe‐
       cial case for traversing between widgets, e.g., when using multiple tailboxbg widgets.

       Some users may wish to use the same key for traversing within the editing part as for traversing between but‐
       tons.  The form widget is written to support this sort of redefinition of the keys, by adding a special group
       in  <code>dlgk_keys.h</code> for "form" (left/right/next/prev).  Here is an example binding demonstrating how
       to do this:

              bindkey formfield TAB  form_NEXT
              bindkey formbox   TAB  form_NEXT
              bindkey formfield BTAB form_prev
              bindkey formbox   BTAB form_prev

       That type of redefinition would not be useful in other widgets, e.g., calendar, due to the potentially  large
       number of fields to traverse.

ENVIRONMENT
       DIALOGOPTS     Define  this  variable  to apply any of the common options to each widget.  Most of the common
                      options are reset before processing each widget.  If you set the options in  this  environment
                      variable, they are applied to dialog's state after the reset.  As in the "--file" option, dou‐
                      ble-quotes and backslashes are interpreted.

                      The "--file" option is not considered a common option (so you cannot embed it within this  en‐
                      vironment variable).

       DIALOGRC       Define this variable if you want to specify the name of the configuration file to use.

       DIALOG_CANCEL

       DIALOG_ERROR

       DIALOG_ESC

       DIALOG_EXTRA

       DIALOG_HELP

       DIALOG_ITEM_HELP

       DIALOG_OK      Define  any  of  these variables to change the exit code on Cancel (1), error (-1), ESC (255),
                      Extra (3), Help (2), Help with --item-help (2), or OK (0).  Normally shell scripts cannot dis‐
                      tinguish between -1 and 255.

       DIALOG_TTY     Set  this variable to "1" to provide compatibility with older versions of dialog which assumed
                      that if the script redirects the standard output, that the "--stdout" option was given.

FILES
       $HOME/.dialogrc     default configuration file

EXAMPLES
       The dialog sources contain several samples of how to use the different box options and how they  look.   Just
       take a look into the directory samples/ of the source.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Exit  status  is  subject to being overridden by environment variables.  The default values and corresponding
       environment variables that can override them are:

       0    if the YES or OK button is pressed (DIALOG_OK).

       1    if the No or Cancel button is pressed (DIALOG_CANCEL).

       2    if the Help button is pressed (DIALOG_HELP),
            except as noted below about DIALOG_ITEM_HELP.

       3    if the Extra button is pressed (DIALOG_EXTRA).

       4    if the Help button is pressed,
            and the --item-help option is set
            and the DIALOG_ITEM_HELP environment variable is set to 4.

            While any of the exit-codes can be overridden using environment variables, this special case was  intro‐
            duced in 2004 to simplify compatibility.  Dialog uses DIALOG_ITEM_HELP(4) internally, but unless the en‐
            vironment variable is also set, it changes that to DIALOG_HELP(2) on exit.

       -1   if errors occur inside dialog (DIALOG_ERROR) or dialog  exits  because  the  ESC  key  (DIALOG_ESC)  was
            pressed.

PORTABILITY
       Dialog works with X/Open curses.  However, some implementations have deficiencies:

          ·   HPUX curses (and perhaps others) do not open the terminal properly for the newterm function.  This in‐
              terferes with dialog's --input-fd option, by preventing cursor-keys and similar escape sequences  from
              being recognized.

          ·   NetBSD 5.1 curses has incomplete support for wide-characters.  dialog will build, but not all examples
              display properly.

COMPATIBILITY
       You may want to write scripts which run with other dialog "clones".

   ORIGINAL DIALOG
       First, there is the "original" dialog program to consider (versions 0.3 to 0.9).  It had some misspelled  (or
       inconsistent)  options.   The  dialog  program maps those deprecated options to the preferred ones.  They in‐
       clude:

              Option         Treatment
              ─────────────────────────────────
              --beep-after   ignored
              --guage        mapped to --gauge

   XDIALOG
       Technically, "Xdialog", this is an X application.  With some care, it is possible  to  write  useful  scripts
       that work with both Xdialog and dialog.

       The dialog program ignores these options which are recognized by Xdialog:

              Option             Treatment
              ───────────────────────────────────────────────
              --allow-close      ignored
              --auto-placement   ignored
              --fixed-font       ignored
              --icon             ignored
              --keep-colors      ignored
              --no-close         ignored
              --no-cr-wrap       ignored
              --screen-center    ignored
              --separator        mapped to --separate-output
              --smooth           ignored
              --under-mouse      ignored
              --wmclass          ignored

       Xdialog's  manpage  has  a  section discussing its compatibility with dialog.  There are some differences not
       shown in the manpage.  For example, the html documentation states

              Note:  former  Xdialog  releases  used  the  "0 (line feed) as a results  separator  for  the   check‐
              list  widget; this has been changed  to  "/"  in  Xdialog v1.5.0 so to make it compatible with (c)dia‐
              log.  In  your  old scripts using the Xdialog checklist, you will  then  have  to   add   the  --sepa‐
              rate-output option before the --checklist one.

       Dialog has not used a different separator; the difference was likely due to confusion regarding some script.

   WHIPTAIL
       Then  there is whiptail.  For practical purposes, it is maintained by Debian (very little work is done by its
       upstream developers).  Its documentation (README.whiptail) claims

              whiptail(1) is a lightweight replacement for dialog(1),
              to provide dialog boxes for shell scripts.
              It is built on the
              newt windowing library rather than the ncurses library, allowing
              it to be smaller in embedded enviroments such as installers,
              rescue disks, etc.

              whiptail is designed to be drop-in compatible with dialog, but
              has less features: some dialog boxes are not implemented, such
              as tailbox, timebox, calendarbox, etc.

       Comparing actual sizes (Debian testing, 2007/1/10): The total of sizes for whiptail, the newt, popt and slang
       libraries is 757kb.  The comparable number for dialog (counting ncurses) is 520kb.  Disregard the first para‐
       graph.

       The second paragraph is misleading, since whiptail also does not work for common options of dialog,  such  as
       the gauge box.  whiptail is less compatible with dialog than the original mid-1990s dialog 0.4 program.

       whiptail's  manpage borrows features from dialog, e.g., but oddly cites only dialog versions up to 0.4 (1994)
       as a source.  That is, its manpage refers to features which were borrowed from more recent versions  of  dia‐
       log, e.g.,

       ·   --gauge (from 0.5)

       ·   --passwordbox (from Debian changes in 1999),

       ·   --default-item (from dialog 2000/02/22),

       ·   --output-fd (from dialog 2002/08/14).

       Somewhat  humorously,  one may note that the popt feature (undocumented in its manpage) of using a "--" as an
       escape was documented in dialog's manpage about a year before it was mentioned in whiptail's manpage.   whip‐
       tail's manpage incorrectly attributes that to getopt (and is inaccurate anyway).

       Debian uses whiptail for the official dialog variation.

       The dialog program ignores or maps these options which are recognized by whiptail:

              Option            Treatment
              ───────────────────────────────────────────
              --cancel-button   mapped to --cancel-label
              --fb              ignored
              --fullbutton      ignored
              --no-button       mapped to --no-label
              --nocancel        mapped to --no-cancel
              --noitem          mapped to --no-items
              --notags          mapped to --no-tags
              --ok-button       mapped to --ok-label
              --scrolltext      mapped to --scrollbar
              --topleft         mapped to --begin 0 0
              --yes-button      mapped to --yes-label

       There are visual differences which are not addressed by command-line options:

       ·   dialog centers lists within the window.  whiptail typically puts lists against the left margin.

       ·   whiptail uses angle brackets ("<" and ">") for marking buttons.  dialog uses square brackets.

       ·   whiptail marks the limits of subtitles with vertical bars.  dialog does not mark the limits.

       ·   whiptail  attempts  to  mark  the top/bottom cells of a scrollbar with up/down arrows.  When it cannot do
           this, it fills those cells with the background color of the scrollbar and confusing the user.  dialog us‐
           es the entire scrollbar space, thereby getting better resolution.

BUGS
       Perhaps.

AUTHOR
       Thomas E. Dickey (updates for 0.9b and beyond)

CONTRIBUTORS
       Kiran Cherupally - the mixed form and mixed gauge widgets.

       Tobias C. Rittweiler

       Valery Reznic - the form and progressbox widgets.

       Yura Kalinichenko adapted the gauge widget as "pause".

       This  is  a  rewrite (except as needed to provide compatibility) of the earlier version of dialog 0.9a, which
       lists as authors:

       ·   Savio Lam - version 0.3, "dialog"

       ·   Stuart Herbert - patch for version 0.4

       ·   Marc Ewing - the gauge widget.

       ·   Pasquale De Marco "Pako" - version 0.9a, "cdialog"



$Date: 2013/09/02 17:38:36 $                                                                               DIALOG(1)
