DIFFSTAT(1)                                    General Commands Manual                                   DIFFSTAT(1)



NAME
       diffstat - make histogram from diff-output

SYNOPSIS
       diffstat [options] [file-specifications]

DESCRIPTION
       This  program  reads  the output of diff and displays a histogram of the insertions, deletions, and modifica‐
       tions per-file.  Diffstat is a program that is useful for reviewing large, complex  patch  files.   It  reads
       from one or more input files which contain output from diff, producing a histogram of the total lines changed
       for each file referenced.

       If the input filename ends with .bz2, .gz, .lzma, .z or .Z, diffstat will read the uncompressed  data  via  a
       pipe  from  the corresponding program.  It also can infer the compression type from files piped via the stan‐
       dard input.

       Diffstat recognizes the most popular types of output from diff:

              unified
                     preferred by the patch utility.

              context
                     best for readability, but not very compact.

              default
                     not good for much, but simple to generate.

       Diffstat detects the lines that are output by diff to tell which files are  compared,  and  then  counts  the
       markers  in the first column that denote the type of change (insertion, deletion or modification).  These are
       shown in the histogram as "+", "-" and "!" characters.

       If no filename is given on the command line, diffstat reads the differences from the standard input.

OPTIONS
       -b     ignore lines matching "Binary files XXX and YYY differ" in the diff

       -c     prefix each line of output with "#", making it a comment-line for shell scripts.

       -C     add SGR color escape sequences to highlight the histogram.

       -D destination
              specify a directory containing files which can be referred to as the result of  applying  the  differ‐
              ences.   diffstat will count the lines in the corresponding files (after adjusting the names by the -p
              option) to obtain the total number of lines in each file.

              The remainder, after subtracting modified and deleted lines, is shown as "unchanged lines".

       -d     The debug prints a lot of information.  It is normally compiled-in, but can be suppressed.

       -e file
              redirect standard error to file.

       -f format
              specify the format of the histogram.

              0  for concise, which shows only the value and a single histogram code for each of insert (+),  delete
                 (-) or modify (!)

              1  for normal output,

              2  to fill in the histogram with dots,

              4  to print each value with the histogram.

              Any  nonzero value gives a histogram.  The dots and individual values can be combined, e.g., -f6 gives
              both.

       -h     prints the usage message and exits.

       -k     suppress the merging of filenames in the report.

       -K     attempt to improve the annotation of "only" files by looking for a match in the resulting set of files
              and inferring whether the file was added or removed.

              This  does not currently work in combination with -R because diffstat maintains only the resulting set
              of files.

       -l     lists only the filenames.  No histogram is generated.

       -m     merge insert/delete counts from each "chunk" of the patch file to approximate a count of the  modified
              lines.

       -n number
              specify the minimum width used for filenames.  If you do not specify this, diffstat uses the length of
              the longest filename, after stripping common prefixes.

       -N number
              specify the maximum width used for filenames.  Names longer than this limit are truncated on the left.
              If you do not specify this, diffstat next checks the -n option.

       -o file
              redirect standard output to file.

       -p number
              override the logic that strips common pathnames, simulating the patch "-p" option.

       -q     suppress the "0 files changed" message for empty diffs.

       -r  code
              provides  optional  rounding of the data shown in histogram, rather than truncating with error adjust‐
              ments.

              0  is the default.  No rounding is performed, but accumulated errors are added to following columns.

              1  rounds the data

              2  rounds the data and adjusts the histogram to ensure that it displays something  if  there  are  any
                 differences even if those would normally be rounded to zero.

       -R     Assume patch was created with old and new files swapped.

       -s     show only the summary line, e.g., number of insertions and deletions.

       -S source
              this is like the -D option, but specifies a location where the original files (before applying differ‐
              ences) can be found.

       -t     overrides the histogram, generates output of comma separated values.

       -u     suppress the sorting of filenames in the report.

       -v     show progress, e.g., if the output is redirected to a file, write progress messages  to  the  standard
              error.

       -V     prints the current version number and exits.

       -w number
              specify the maximum width of the histogram.  The histogram will never be shorter than 10 columns, just
              in case the filenames get too large.

ENVIRONMENT
       Diffstat runs in a portable UNIX® environment.

       You can override the compiled-in paths of programs used for decompressing input files by setting  environment
       variables corresponding to their name:

              DIFFSTAT_BZCAT_PATH
              DIFFSTAT_BZIP2_PATH
              DIFFSTAT_COMPRESS_PATH
              DIFFSTAT_GZIP_PATH
              DIFFSTAT_LZCAT_PATH
              DIFFSTAT_PCAT_PATH
              DIFFSTAT_UNCOMPRESS_PATH
              DIFFSTAT_XZ_PATH
              DIFFSTAT_ZCAT_PATH

       However, diffstat assumes that the resulting program uses the same command-line options, e.g., "-c" to decom‐
       press to the standard output.

FILES
       Diffstat is a single binary module, which uses no auxiliary files.

BUGS
       Diffstat makes a lot of assumptions about the format of a diff file.

       There is no way to obtain a filename from the standard diff between two files with no options.  Context diffs
       work, as well as unified diffs.

       There's  no easy way to determine the degree of overlap between the "before" and "after" displays of modified
       lines.  diffstat simply counts the number of inserted and deleted lines to approximate modified lines for the
       -m option.

SEE ALSO
       diff(1).

AUTHOR
       Thomas Dickey <dickey@invisible-island.net>.



                                                                                                         DIFFSTAT(1)
