DM-TOOL(1)                                     General Commands Manual                                    DM-TOOL(1)



NAME
       dm-tool - a tool to control the display manager

SYNOPSIS
       dm-tool [ OPTIONS ] COMMAND [ ARGS ]

DESCRIPTION
       dm-tool is a tool to communicate with the LightDM display manager.

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              Show help options

       --version
              Show release version

       --session-bus
              Attempt  to connect to the display manager using the session bus.  This is useful if you are running a
              display manager in a test mode.  If this option is not present dm-tool will connect using  the  system
              bus.

       The following commands are available:

       switch-to-greeter
              Switch to the greeter suitable for logging into a new session.

       switch-to-user USERNAME [SESSION]
              Switch  to  a user session.  If this user is already logged in then the display manager will switch to
              that session, otherwise a new session is started.  If authentication is required a greeter will  start
              to collect this.  If the session option is provided then this session type will be used, otherwise the
              default for this user is used.

       switch-to-guest [SESSION]
              Switch to a guest session.  If the guest session is already active the display manager will switch  to
              that  session,  otherwise  the  guest session is started.  If the session option is provided then this
              session type will be used, otherwise the default for the guest user is used.

       lock   Lock the current seat.  This will switch to a greeter with a hint that the screen is locked.  You  can
              return to this session by authenticating in the greeter.

       list-seats
              List the active seats and sessions that are running.

       add-nested-seat
              Start an X server inside a session and connect it to a display manager.

       add-local-x-seat DISPLAY_NUMBER
              Connect an existing X server to the display manager.

       add-seat TYPE [NAME=VALUE...]
              Add a dynamic seat.

SEE ALSO
       lightdm(1)



                                                   7 November 2013                                        DM-TOOL(1)
