DMESG(1)                                            User Commands                                           DMESG(1)



NAME
       dmesg - print or control the kernel ring buffer

SYNOPSIS
       dmesg [options]

       dmesg --clear

       dmesg --read-clear [options]

       dmesg --console-level level

       dmesg --console-on

       dmesg --console-off

DESCRIPTION
       dmesg is used to examine or control the kernel ring buffer.

       The default action is to read all messages from kernel ring buffer.


OPTIONS
       The --clear, --read-clear, --console-on, --console-off and --console-level options are mutually exclusive.


       -C, --clear
              Clear the ring buffer.

       -c, --read-clear
              Clear the ring buffer contents after printing.

       -D, --console-off
              Disable printing messages to the console.

       -d, --show-delta
              Display  the timestamp and time delta spent between messages. If used together with --notime then only
              the time delta without the timestamp is printed.

       -E, --console-on
              Enable printing messages to the console.

       -f, --facility list
              Restrict output to defined (comma separated) list of facilities. For example

                dmesg --facility=daemon

              will print messages from system daemons only. For all supported facilities see dmesg --help output.

       -h, --help
              Print a help text and exit.

       -k, --kernel
              Print kernel messages.

       -l, --level list
              Restrict output to defined (comma separated) list of levels. For example

                dmesg --level=err,warn

              will print error and warning messages only. For all supported levels see dmesg --help output.

       -n, --console-level level
              Set the level at which logging of messages is done to the console. The level  is  a  level  number  or
              abbreviation of the level name. For all supported levels see dmesg --help output.

              For example, -n 1 or -n alert prevents all messages, except emergency (panic) messages, from appearing
              on the console.  All levels of messages are still written to /proc/kmsg, so syslogd(8)  can  still  be
              used  to  control  exactly  where  kernel messages appear.  When the -n option is used, dmesg will not
              print or clear the kernel ring buffer.

       -r, --raw
              Print the raw message buffer, i.e., don't strip the log level prefixes.

       -s, --buffer-size size
              Use a buffer of size to query the kernel ring buffer.  This is 16392 by default.  (The default  kernel
              syslog  buffer  size  was 4096 at first, 8192 since 1.3.54, 16384 since 2.1.113.)  If you have set the
              kernel buffer to be larger than the default then this option can be used to view the entire buffer.

       -T, --ctime
              Print human readable timestamps. The timestamp could be inaccurate!

              The time source used for the logs is not updated after system SUSPEND/RESUME.

       -t, --notime
              Don't print kernel's timestampts.

       -u, --userspace
              Print userspace messages.

       -V, --version
              Output version information and exit.

       -x, --decode
              Decode facility and level (priority) number to human readable prefixes.

SEE ALSO
       syslogd(8)

AUTHORS
       Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
       Theodore Ts'o <tytso@athena.mit.edu>

AVAILABILITY
       The  dmesg  command  is  part  of   the   util-linux   package   and   is   available   from   ftp://ftp.ker‐
       nel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.



util-linux                                            July 2011                                             DMESG(1)
