DOTLOCKFILE(1)                                    Cistron Utilities                                   DOTLOCKFILE(1)



NAME
       dotlockfile - Utility to manage lockfiles

SYNOPSIS
       /usr/bin/dotlockfile [-l [-r retries] |-u|-t|-c] [-p] [-m|lockfile]

DESCRIPTION
       dotlockfile  is  a  command line utility to reliably create, test and remove lockfiles.  It creates lockfiles
       reliably on local and NFS filesystems, because the crucial steps of testing for a  preexisting  lockfile  and
       creating  it  are performed atomically by a single call to link(2).  Manpage lockfile_create(3) describes the
       used algorithm.

       dotlockfile is installed with attribute SETGID mail and thus can also be used to lock  and  unlock  mailboxes
       even if the mailspool directory is only writable by group mail.

       The  name  dotlockfile comes from the way mailboxes are locked for updates on a lot of UNIX systems.  A lock‐
       file is created with the same filename as the mailbox but with the string ".lock" appended.

       The names dotlock and lockfile were already taken - hence the name dotlockfile :).

OPTIONS
       -l     Create a lockfile if no preexisting valid lockfile is found, else wait and retry according  to  option
              -r.  This option is the default.

              A lockfile is treated as valid,
              ·  if it holds the process-id of a running process,
              ·  or  if  it  does not hold any process-id and has been touched less than 5 minutes ago (timestamp is
              younger than 5 minutes).

       -r retries
              The number of times dotlockfile retries to acquire the lock if it failed the first time before  giving
              up.   The  initial  sleep  after failing to acquire the lock is 5 seconds.  After each retry the sleep
              intervall is increased incrementally by 5 seconds up to a maximum sleep of 60 seconds  between  tries.
              The default number of retries is 5.  To try only once, use "-r 0".  To try indefinitely, use "-r -1".

       -u     Remove a lockfile.

       -t     Touch  an  existing  lockfile  (update  the timestamp).  Useful for lockfiles on NFS filesystems.  For
              lockfiles on local filesystems the -p option is preferable.

       -c     For debugging only:  Check for the existence of a valid lockfile.

              Note:  Testing for a preexisting lockfile and writing of the lockfile must be done by the  same  "dot‐
              lockfile -l" or "dotlockfile -m" command, else the lockfile creation cannot be reliable.

       -p     Write  the  process-id  of  the  calling process into the lockfile.  Also when testing for an existing
              lockfile, check the contents for the process-id of a running process to  verify  if  the  lockfile  is
              still valid.  Obviously useful only for lockfiles on local filesystems.

       -m     Lock  or  unlock  the  current users mailbox.  The path to the mailbox is the default system mailspool
              directory (usually /var/mail) with the username as gotten from getpwuid() appended.  If  the  environ‐
              ment variable $MAIL is set, that is used instead.  Then the string ".lock" is appended to get the name
              of the actual lockfile.

       lockfile
              The lockfile to be created or removed.  Must not be specified, if the -m option is in effect.

RETURN VALUE
       Zero on success, and non-zero on failure.  For the -c option, sucess means that a valid lockfile  is  already
       present.   When  locking  (the  default,  or  with  the -l option) dotlockfile returns the same values as the
       library function lockfile_create(3).  Unlocking a non-existant lockfile is not an error.

NOTES
       The lockfile is created exactly as named on the command line.  The extension  ".lock"  is  not  automatically
       appended.

       This  utility  is  a lot like the lockfile(1) utility included with procmail, and the mutt_dotlock(1) utility
       included with mutt.  However the command-line arguments differ,  and  so  does  the  return  status.   It  is
       believed,  that dotlockfile is the most flexible implementation, since it automatically detects when it needs
       to use priviliges to lock a mailbox, and does it safely.

       The above mentioned lockfile_create(3) manpage is present in the liblockfile-dev package.

BUGS
       None known.

SEE ALSO
       lockfile_create(3), maillock(3)

AUTHOR
       Miquel van Smoorenburg, miquels@cistron.nl



                                                  September 8, 2009                                   DOTLOCKFILE(1)
