dpkg(1)                                              dpkg suite                                              dpkg(1)



NAME
       dpkg - package manager for Debian

SYNOPSIS
       dpkg [option...] action

WARNING
       This  manual  is  intended  for users wishing to understand dpkg's command line options and package states in
       more detail than that provided by dpkg --help.

       It should not be used by package maintainers wishing to understand how dpkg will install their packages.  The
       descriptions of what dpkg does when installing and removing packages are particularly inadequate.

DESCRIPTION
       dpkg  is  a  tool  to  install,  build, remove and manage Debian packages. The primary and more user-friendly
       front-end for dpkg is aptitude(1). dpkg itself is controlled entirely via command line parameters, which con‐
       sist  of  exactly one action and zero or more options. The action-parameter tells dpkg what to do and options
       control the behavior of the action in some way.

       dpkg can also be used as a front-end to dpkg-deb(1) and dpkg-query(1). The list of supported actions  can  be
       found  later  on  in  the  ACTIONS  section.  If  any  such  action is encountered dpkg just runs dpkg-deb or
       dpkg-query with the parameters given to it, but no specific options are currently passed to them, to use  any
       such option the back-ends need to be called directly.

INFORMATION ABOUT PACKAGES
       dpkg maintains some usable information about available packages. The information is divided in three classes:
       states, selection states and flags. These values are intended to be changed mainly with dselect.

   Package states
       not-installed
              The package is not installed on your system.

       config-files
              Only the configuration files of the package exist on the system.

       half-installed
              The installation of the package has been started, but not completed for some reason.

       unpacked
              The package is unpacked, but not configured.

       half-configured
              The package is unpacked and configuration has been started, but not yet completed for some reason.

       triggers-awaited
              The package awaits trigger processing by another package.

       triggers-pending
              The package has been triggered.

       installed
              The package is unpacked and configured OK.

   Package selection states
       install
              The package is selected for installation.

       hold   A package marked to be on hold is  not  handled  by  dpkg,  unless  forced  to  do  that  with  option
              --force-hold.

       deinstall
              The  package  is  selected  for deinstallation (i.e. we want to remove all files, except configuration
              files).

       purge  The package is selected to be purged (i.e. we want to remove everything from system directories,  even
              configuration files).

   Package flags
       reinst-required
              A  package  marked  reinst-required  is  broken  and requires reinstallation. These packages cannot be
              removed, unless forced with option --force-remove-reinstreq.

ACTIONS
       -i, --install package-file...
              Install the package. If --recursive or -R option is specified, package-file must refer to a  directory
              instead.

              Installation consists of the following steps:

              1. Extract the control files of the new package.

              2.  If  another  version  of the same package was installed before the new installation, execute prerm
              script of the old package.

              3. Run preinst script, if provided by the package.

              4. Unpack the new files, and at the same time back up the old files, so that if something goes  wrong,
              they can be restored.

              5.  If  another  version  of  the  same package was installed before the new installation, execute the
              postrm script of the old package. Note that this script is executed after the preinst  script  of  the
              new package, because new files are written at the same time old files are removed.

              6. Configure the package. See --configure for detailed information about how this is done.

       --unpack package-file...
              Unpack  the  package,  but  don't configure it. If --recursive or -R option is specified, package-file
              must refer to a directory instead.

       --configure package...|-a|--pending
              Configure a package which has been unpacked but not yet configured.   If  -a  or  --pending  is  given
              instead of package, all unpacked but unconfigured packages are configured.

              To  reconfigure  a  package  which  has  already  been configured, try the dpkg-reconfigure(8) command
              instead.

              Configuring consists of the following steps:

              1. Unpack the conffiles, and at the same time back up the old conffiles, so that they can be  restored
              if something goes wrong.

              2. Run postinst script, if provided by the package.

       --triggers-only package...|-a|--pending
              Processes  only  triggers.  All pending triggers will be processed. If package names are supplied only
              those packages' triggers will be processed, exactly once each where necessary. Use of this option  may
              leave  packages  in the improper triggers-awaited and triggers-pending states. This can be fixed later
              by running: dpkg --configure --pending.

       -r, --remove, -P, --purge package...|-a|--pending
              Remove an installed package. -r or --remove remove everything except conffiles. This may avoid  having
              to  reconfigure  the  package  if it is reinstalled later. (Conffiles are configuration files that are
              listed in the DEBIAN/conffiles control file). -P or --purge removes everything,  including  conffiles.
              If  -a  or  --pending is given instead of a package name, then all packages unpacked, but marked to be
              removed or purged in file /var/lib/dpkg/status, are removed or purged, respectively. Note:  some  con‐
              figuration  files might be unknown to dpkg because they are created and handled separately through the
              configuration scripts. In that case, dpkg won't remove them by itself, but the package's postrm script
              (which  is  called  by  dpkg),  has  to  take care of their removal during purge. Of course, this only
              applies to files in system directories, not configuration files  written  to  individual  users'  home
              directories.

              Removing of a package consists of the following steps:

              1. Run prerm script

              2. Remove the installed files

              3. Run postrm script

       -V, --verify [package-name...]
              Verifies  the  integrity of package-name or all packages if omitted, by comparing information from the
              installed paths with the database metadata.

              The output format is selectable with the --verify-format option, which by default uses the rpm format,
              but  that  might  change  in  the  future,  and as such programs parsing this command output should be
              explicit about the format they expect.

       --update-avail, --merge-avail Packages-file
              Update dpkg's and dselect's idea of which packages  are  available.  With  action  --merge-avail,  old
              information  is combined with information from Packages-file. With action --update-avail, old informa‐
              tion is replaced with the information in the Packages-file. The Packages-file distributed with  Debian
              is simply named Packages. dpkg keeps its record of available packages in /var/lib/dpkg/available.

              A simpler one-shot command to retrieve and update the available file is dselect update. Note that this
              file is mostly useless if you don't use dselect but an APT-based frontend: APT has its own  system  to
              keep track of available packages.

       -A, --record-avail package-file...
              Update dpkg and dselect's idea of which packages are available with information from the package pack‐
              age-file. If --recursive or -R option is specified, package-file must refer to a directory instead.

       --forget-old-unavail
              Now obsolete and a no-op as dpkg will automatically forget uninstalled unavailable packages.

       --clear-avail
              Erase the existing information about what packages are available.

        -C, --audit
              Searches for packages that have been installed only partially on your system. dpkg will  suggest  what
              to do with them to get them working.

       --get-selections [package-name-pattern...]
              Get  list  of  package  selections,  and write it to stdout. Without a pattern, non-installed packages
              (i.e. those which have been previously purged) will not be shown.

       --set-selections
              Set package selections using file read from stdin. This file should be in the format 'package  state',
              where  state is one of install, hold, deinstall or purge. Blank lines and comment lines beginning with
              '#' are also permitted.

              The available file needs to be up-to-date for this command to be useful,  otherwise  unknown  packages
              will  be  ignored  with a warning. See the --update-avail and --merge-avail commands for more informa‐
              tion.

       --clear-selections
              Set the requested state of every non-essential package to deinstall.  This  is  intended  to  be  used
              immediately before --set-selections, to deinstall any packages not in list given to --set-selections.

       --yet-to-unpack
              Searches  for  packages  selected  for  installation,  but  which  for  some reason still haven't been
              installed.

       --add-architecture architecture
              Add architecture to the list of architectures for  which  packages  can  be  installed  without  using
              --force-architecture.  The architecture dpkg is built for (i.e. the output of --print-architecture) is
              always part of that list.

       --remove-architecture architecture
              Remove architecture from the list of architectures for which packages can be installed  without  using
              --force-architecture.  If the architecture is currently in use in the database then the operation will
              be refused, except if --force-architecture is specified. The architecture dpkg is built for (i.e.  the
              output of --print-architecture) can never be removed from that list.

       --print-architecture
              Print architecture of packages dpkg installs (for example, "i386").

       --print-foreign-architectures
              Print  a  newline-separated list of the extra architectures dpkg is configured to allow packages to be
              installed for.

       --compare-versions ver1 op ver2
              Compare version numbers, where op is a binary operator. dpkg returns  success  (zero  result)  if  the
              specified  condition  is  satisfied,  and  failure (nonzero result) otherwise. There are two groups of
              operators, which differ in how they treat an empty ver1 or ver2. These treat an empty version as  ear‐
              lier  than  any  version:  lt  le eq ne ge gt. These treat an empty version as later than any version:
              lt-nl le-nl ge-nl gt-nl. These are provided only for compatibility with control file syntax: < << <= =
              >= >> >.

       -?, --help
              Display a brief help message.

       --force-help
              Give help about the --force-thing options.

       -Dh, --debug=help
              Give help about debugging options.

       --version
              Display dpkg version information.

       dpkg-deb actions
              See dpkg-deb(1) for more information about the following actions.

              -b, --build directory [archive|directory]
                  Build a deb package.
              -c, --contents archive
                  List contents of a deb package.
              -e, --control filename [directory]
                  Extract control-information from a package.
              -x, --extract archive directory
                  Extract the files contained by package.
              -X, --vextract archive directory
                  Extract and display the filenames contained by a
                  package.
              -f, --field  archive [control-field...]
                  Display control field(s) of a package.
              --fsys-tarfile archive
                  Display the filesystem tar-file contained by a
                  Debian package.
              -I, --info archive [control-file...]
                  Show information about a package.


       dpkg-query actions
              See dpkg-query(1) for more information about the following actions.


              -l, --list package-name-pattern...
                  List packages matching given pattern.
              -s, --status package-name...
                  Report status of specified package.
              -L, --listfiles package-name...
                  List files installed to your system from package-name.
              -S, --search filename-search-pattern...
                  Search for a filename from installed packages.
              -p, --print-avail package-name...
                  Display details about package-name, as found in
                  /var/lib/dpkg/available. Users of APT-based frontends
                  should use apt-cache show package-name instead.

OPTIONS
       All  options  can be specified both on the command line and in the dpkg configuration file /etc/dpkg/dpkg.cfg
       or fragment files (with names matching this shell pattern '[0-9a-zA-Z_-]*') on  the  configuration  directory
       /etc/dpkg/dpkg.cfg.d/.  Each line in the configuration file is either an option (exactly the same as the com‐
       mand line option but without leading hyphens) or a comment (if it starts with a #).

       --abort-after=number
              Change after how many errors dpkg will abort. The default is 50.

       -B, --auto-deconfigure
              When a package is removed, there is a possibility that  another  installed  package  depended  on  the
              removed  package.  Specifying  this  option  will cause automatic deconfiguration of the package which
              depended on the removed package.

       -Doctal, --debug=octal
              Switch debugging on. octal is formed by bitwise-orring desired values together  from  the  list  below
              (note  that  these  values may change in future releases). -Dh or --debug=help display these debugging
              values.

                  Number   Description
                       1   Generally helpful progress information
                       2   Invocation and status of maintainer scripts
                      10   Output for each file processed
                     100   Lots of output for each file processed
                      20   Output for each configuration file
                     200   Lots of output for each configuration file
                      40   Dependencies and conflicts
                     400   Lots of dependencies/conflicts output
                   10000   Trigger activation and processing
                   20000   Lots of output regarding triggers
                   40000   Silly amounts of output regarding triggers
                    1000   Lots of drivel about e.g. the dpkg/info dir
                    2000   Insane amounts of drivel

       --force-things, --no-force-things, --refuse-things

              Force or refuse (no-force and refuse mean the same thing) to do some things. things is a  comma  sepa‐
              rated  list of things specified below. --force-help displays a message describing them.  Things marked
              with (*) are forced by default.

              Warning: These options are mostly intended to be used by experts only. Using them without fully under‐
              standing their effects may break your whole system.

              all: Turns on (or off) all force options.

              downgrade(*): Install a package, even if newer version of it is already installed.

              Warning: At present dpkg does not do any dependency checking on downgrades and therefore will not warn
              you if the downgrade breaks the dependency of some other package. This can have serious side  effects,
              downgrading essential system components can even make your whole system unusable. Use with care.

              configure-any:  Configure  also  any  unpacked  but unconfigured packages on which the current package
              depends.

              hold: Process packages even when marked "hold".

              remove-reinstreq: Remove a package, even if it's broken and marked  to  require  reinstallation.  This
              may,  for example, cause parts of the package to remain on the system, which will then be forgotten by
              dpkg.

              remove-essential: Remove, even if the package is  considered  essential.  Essential  packages  contain
              mostly  very  basic  Unix commands. Removing them might cause the whole system to stop working, so use
              with caution.

              depends: Turn all dependency problems into warnings.

              depends-version: Don't care about versions when checking dependencies.

              breaks: Install, even if this would break another package.

              conflicts: Install, even if it conflicts with another package. This is dangerous, for it will  usually
              cause overwriting of some files.

              confmiss: If a conffile is missing and the version in the package did change, always install the miss‐
              ing conffile without prompting. This is dangerous, since it means not preserving a  change  (removing)
              made to the file.

              confnew: If a conffile has been modified and the version in the package did change, always install the
              new version without prompting, unless the --force-confdef is also specified, in which case the default
              action is preferred.

              confold:  If  a  conffile has been modified and the version in the package did change, always keep the
              old version without prompting, unless the --force-confdef is also specified, in which case the default
              action is preferred.

              confdef:  If a conffile has been modified and the version in the package did change, always choose the
              default action without prompting. If there is no default action it will stop to ask  the  user  unless
              --force-confnew  or  --force-confold  is also been given, in which case it will use that to decide the
              final action.

              confask: If a conffile has been modified always offer to replace it with the version in  the  package,
              even  if  the  version  in  the  package  did not change. If any of --force-confmiss, --force-confnew,
              --force-confold, or --force-confdef is also given, it will be used to decide the final action.

              overwrite: Overwrite one package's file with another's file.

              overwrite-dir Overwrite one package's directory with another's file.

              overwrite-diverted: Overwrite a diverted file with an undiverted version.

              unsafe-io: Do not perform safe I/O operations when unpacking. Currently this  implies  not  performing
              file  system syncs before file renames, which is known to cause substantial performance degradation on
              some file systems, unfortunately the ones that require the safe I/O on the first place  due  to  their
              unreliable behaviour causing zero-length files on abrupt system crashes.

              Note:  For ext4, the main offender, consider using instead the mount option nodelalloc, which will fix
              both the performance degradation and the data safety issues, the latter by making the file system  not
              produce  zero-length  files  on  abrupt system crashes with any software not doing syncs before atomic
              renames.

              Warning: Using this option might improve performance at the cost of losing data, use with care.

              architecture: Process even packages with wrong or no architecture.

              bad-version: Process even packages with wrong versions.

              bad-path: PATH is missing important programs, so problems are likely.

              not-root: Try to (de)install things even when not root.

              bad-verify: Install a package even if it fails authenticity check.


       --ignore-depends=package,...
              Ignore dependency-checking for specified packages (actually, checking is performed, but only  warnings
              about conflicts are given, nothing else).

       --no-act, --dry-run, --simulate
              Do  everything  which  is  supposed  to be done, but don't write any changes. This is used to see what
              would happen with the specified action, without actually modifying anything.

              Be sure to give --no-act before the action-parameter, or you might end up  with  undesirable  results.
              (e.g.  dpkg  --purge foo --no-act will first purge package foo and then try to purge package --no-act,
              even though you probably expected it to actually do nothing)

       -R, --recursive
              Recursively handle all regular files matching pattern *.deb found at specified directories and all  of
              its subdirectories. This can be used with -i, -A, --install, --unpack and --avail actions.

       -G     Don't  install a package if a newer version of the same package is already installed. This is an alias
              of --refuse-downgrade.

       --admindir=dir
              Change default administrative directory, which contains many files that give information about  status
              of installed or uninstalled packages, etc.  (Defaults to /var/lib/dpkg)

       --instdir=dir
              Change  default  installation  directory  which  refers  to  the  directory  where  packages are to be
              installed. instdir is also the directory passed to chroot(2)  before  running  package's  installation
              scripts, which means that the scripts see instdir as a root directory.  (Defaults to /)

       --root=dir
              Changing root changes instdir to dir and admindir to dir/var/lib/dpkg.

       -O, --selected-only
              Only  process the packages that are selected for installation. The actual marking is done with dselect
              or by dpkg, when it handles packages. For example, when a  package  is  removed,  it  will  be  marked
              selected for deinstallation.

       -E, --skip-same-version
              Don't install the package if the same version of the package is already installed.

       --pre-invoke=command
       --post-invoke=command
              Set  an invoke hook command to be run via “sh -c” before or after the dpkg run for the unpack, config‐
              ure, install, triggers-only, remove and purge dpkg actions. This  option  can  be  specified  multiple
              times.  The  order  the options are specified is preserved, with the ones from the configuration files
              taking precedence.  The environment variable DPKG_HOOK_ACTION is set for the hooks to the current dpkg
              action.  Note: front-ends might call dpkg several times per invocation, which might run the hooks more
              times than expected.

       --path-exclude=glob-pattern
       --path-include=glob-pattern
              Set glob-pattern as a path filter, either by  excluding  or  re-including  previously  excluded  paths
              matching the specified patterns during install.

              Warning:  take  into account that depending on the excluded paths you might completely break your sys‐
              tem, use with caution.

              The glob patterns use the same wildcards used in the shell, were '*' matches any sequence  of  charac‐
              ters,   including   the   empty   string   and   also   '/'.   For   example,  '/usr/*/READ*'  matches
              '/usr/share/doc/package/README'.  As usual, '?' matches any single character (again,  including  '/').
              And '[' starts a character class, which can contain a list of characters, ranges and complementations.
              See glob(7) for detailed information about globbing. Note: the current implementation might re-include
              more  directories and symlinks than needed, to be on the safe side and avoid possible unpack failures,
              future work might fix this.

              This can be used to remove all paths except some particular ones; a typical case is:

              --path-exclude=/usr/share/doc/*
              --path-include=/usr/share/doc/*/copyright

              to remove all documentation files except the copyright files.

              These two options can be specified multiple times, and interleaved with each other. Both are processed
              in the given order, with the last rule that matches a file name making the decision.

       --verify-format format-name
              Sets the output format for the --verify command.

              The only currently supported output format is rpm, which consists of a line for every path that failed
              any check. The lines start with 9 characters to report the specific check results, a '?'  implies  the
              check  could  not be done (lack of support, file permissions, etc), '.'  implies the check passed, and
              an alphanumeric character implies a specific check failed; the only functional check is an md5sum ver‐
              ification  denoted with a '5' on the third character. The line is followed by a space and an attribute
              character (currently 'c' for conffiles), another space and the pathname.

       --status-fd n
              Send machine-readable package status and progress information to file descriptor n. This option can be
              specified  multiple  times.  The information is generally one record per line, in one of the following
              forms:

              status: package: status
                     Package status changed; status is as in the status file.

              status: package : error : extended-error-message
                     An error occurred. Any possible newlines in extended-error-message will be converted to  spaces
                     before output.

              status: file : conffile-prompt : 'real-old' 'real-new' useredited distedited
                     User is being asked a conffile question.

              processing: stage: package
                     Sent  just before a processing stage starts. stage is one of upgrade, install (both sent before
                     unpacking), configure, trigproc, disappear, remove, purge.

       --status-logger=command
              Send machine-readable package status and progress information to the shell command's  standard  input.
              This option can be specified multiple times. The output format used is the same as in --status-fd.

       --log=filename
              Log  status  change updates and actions to filename, instead of the default /var/log/dpkg.log. If this
              option is given multiple times, the last filename is used. Log messages are of  the  form  `YYYY-MM-DD
              HH:MM:SS  status  state  pkg installed-version' for status change updates; `YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS action
              pkg installed-version available-version' for actions where action is one of install, upgrade,  remove,
              purge;  and  `YYYY-MM-DD  HH:MM:SS  conffile filename decision' for conffile changes where decision is
              either install or keep.

       --no-debsig
              Do not try to verify package signatures.

       --no-triggers
              Do not run any triggers in this run (activations will still be recorded).  If  used  with  --configure
              package  or  --triggers-only  package then the named package postinst will still be run even if only a
              triggers run is needed. Use of this option may leave packages in  the  improper  triggers-awaited  and
              triggers-pending states. This can be fixed later by running: dpkg --configure --pending.

       --triggers
              Cancels a previous --no-triggers.

ENVIRONMENT
       HOME   If set, dpkg will use it as the directory from which to read the user specific configuration file.

       TMPDIR If set, dpkg will use it as the directory in which to create temporary files and directories.

       PAGER  The program dpkg will execute when displaying the conffiles.

       SHELL  The program dpkg will execute when starting a new shell.

       COLUMNS
              Sets the number of columns dpkg should use when displaying formatted text. Currently only used by -l.

       DPKG_SHELL_REASON
              Defined  by  dpkg  on the shell spawned on the conffile prompt to examine the situation. Current valid
              value: conffile-prompt.

       DPKG_CONFFILE_OLD
              Defined by dpkg on the shell spawned on the conffile prompt to examine  the  situation.  Contains  the
              path to the old conffile.

       DPKG_CONFFILE_NEW
              Defined  by  dpkg  on  the shell spawned on the conffile prompt to examine the situation. Contains the
              path to the new conffile.

       DPKG_RUNNING_VERSION
              Defined by dpkg on the maintainer script environment to the version  of  the  currently  running  dpkg
              instance.

       DPKG_MAINTSCRIPT_PACKAGE
              Defined  by  dpkg  on the maintainer script environment to the (non-arch-qualified) package name being
              handled.

       DPKG_MAINTSCRIPT_PACKAGE_REFCOUNT
              Defined by dpkg on the maintainer script environment to the package reference count, i.e.  the  number
              of package instances with a state greater than not-installed. Since dpkg 1.17.2.

       DPKG_MAINTSCRIPT_ARCH
              Defined by dpkg on the maintainer script environment to the architecture the package got built for.

       DPKG_MAINTSCRIPT_NAME
              Defined  by  dpkg  on  the  maintainer  script environment to the name of the script running (preinst,
              postinst, prerm, postrm).

FILES
       /etc/dpkg/dpkg.cfg.d/[0-9a-zA-Z_-]*
              Configuration fragment files.

       /etc/dpkg/dpkg.cfg
              Configuration file with default options.

       /var/log/dpkg.log
              Default log file (see /etc/dpkg/dpkg.cfg(5) and option --log).

       The other files listed below are in their default directories, see option --admindir to  see  how  to  change
       locations of these files.

       /var/lib/dpkg/available
              List of available packages.

       /var/lib/dpkg/status
              Statuses  of  available packages. This file contains information about whether a package is marked for
              removing or not, whether it is installed or not, etc. See section INFORMATION ABOUT PACKAGES for  more
              info.

              The  status file is backed up daily in /var/backups. It can be useful if it's lost or corrupted due to
              filesystems troubles.

       The following files are components of a binary package. See deb(5) for more information about them:
              control
              conffiles
              preinst
              postinst
              prerm
              postrm
              triggers

BUGS
       --no-act usually gives less information than might be helpful.

EXAMPLES
       To list installed packages related to the editor vi(1) (note that dpkg-query does not load the available file
       anymore by default, and the dpkg-query --load-avail option should be used instead for that):
            dpkg -l '*vi*'

       To see the entries in /var/lib/dpkg/available of two packages:
            dpkg --print-avail elvis vim | less

       To search the listing of packages yourself:
            less /var/lib/dpkg/available

       To remove an installed elvis package:
            dpkg -r elvis

       To install a package, you first need to find it in an archive or CDROM. The available file shows that the vim
       package is in section "editors":
            cd /media/cdrom/pool/main/v/vim
            dpkg -i vim_4.5-3.deb

       To make a local copy of the package selection states:
            dpkg --get-selections >myselections

       You might transfer this file to another computer, and after having updated the available file there with your
       package  manager  frontend of choice (see https://wiki.debian.org/Teams/Dpkg/FAQ for more details), for exam‐
       ple:
            avail=`mktemp`
            apt-cache dumpavail >"$avail"
            dpkg --merge-avail "$avail"
            rm "$avail"
       you can install it with:
            dpkg --clear-selections
            dpkg --set-selections <myselections

       Note that this will not actually install or remove  anything,  but  just  set  the  selection  state  on  the
       requested packages. You will need some other application to actually download and install the requested pack‐
       ages. For example, run apt-get dselect-upgrade.

       Ordinarily, you will find that dselect(1) provides a more convenient way  to  modify  the  package  selection
       states.

ADDITIONAL FUNCTIONALITY
       Additional  functionality  can  be gained by installing any of the following packages: apt, aptitude and deb‐
       sums.

SEE ALSO
       aptitude(1), apt(1), dselect(1), dpkg-deb(1), dpkg-query(1), deb(5), deb-control(5), dpkg.cfg(5), and
       dpkg-reconfigure(8).

AUTHORS
       See /usr/share/doc/dpkg/THANKS for the list of people who have contributed to dpkg.



Debian Project                                       2013-07-28                                              dpkg(1)
