dpkg-source(1)                                     dpkg utilities                                     dpkg-source(1)



NAME
       dpkg-source - Debian source package (.dsc) manipulation tool

SYNOPSIS
       dpkg-source [option...] command

DESCRIPTION
       dpkg-source packs and unpacks Debian source archives.

       None of these commands allow multiple options to be combined into one, and they do not allow the value for an
       option to be specified in a separate argument.

COMMANDS
       -x filename.dsc [output-directory]
              Extract a source package. One non-option argument must be supplied, the name of the Debian source con‐
              trol  file (.dsc).  An optional second non-option argument may be supplied to specify the directory to
              extract the source package to, this must not exist. If no output directory is  specified,  the  source
              package is extracted into a directory named source-version under the current working directory.

              dpkg-source  will  read  the  names of the other file(s) making up the source package from the control
              file; they are assumed to be in the same directory as the .dsc.

              The files in the extracted package will have their permissions and ownerships set to those which would
              have  been  expected if the files and directories had simply been created - directories and executable
              files will be 0777 and plain files will be 0666, both modified by the extractors' umask; if the parent
              directory is setgid then the extracted directories will be too, and all the files and directories will
              inherit its group ownership.

              If the source package uses a non-standard format (currently this means all formats except "1.0"),  its
              name will be stored in debian/source/format so that the following builds of the source package use the
              same format by default.


       -b directory [format-specific-parameters]
              Build a source package. The first non-option argument is taken as the name of the directory containing
              the debianized source tree (i.e. with a debian sub-directory and maybe changes to the original files).
              Depending on the source package format used to build  the  package,  additional  parameters  might  be
              accepted.

              dpkg-source will build the source package with the first format found in this ordered list: the format
              indicated with the --format command line option, the format indicated in debian/source/format,  "1.0".
              The fallback to "1.0" is deprecated and will be removed at some point in the future, you should always
              document the desired source format in debian/source/format. See section SOURCE PACKAGE FORMATS for  an
              extensive description of the various source package formats.


       --print-format directory
              Print the source format that would be used to build the source package if dpkg-source -b directory was
              called (in the same conditions and with the same parameters).


       --before-build directory
              Run the corresponding hook of the source package format. This hook is called before any build  of  the
              package  (dpkg-buildpackage calls it very early even before debian/rules clean). This command is idem‐
              potent and can be called multiple times. Not all source formats implement something in this hook,  and
              those  that  do  usually prepare the source tree for the build for example by ensuring that the Debian
              patches are applied.


       --after-build directory
              Run the corresponding hook of the source package format. This hook is called after any  build  of  the
              package  (dpkg-buildpackage  calls  it  last).  This  command is idempotent and can be called multiple
              times. Not all source formats implement something in this hook, and those that do usually  use  it  to
              undo what --before-build has done.


       --commit [directory] ...
              Record  changes  in the source tree unpacked in directory. This command can take supplementary parame‐
              ters depending on the source format.  It will error out for formats where this operation doesn't  mean
              anything.


       -?, --help
              Show the usage message and exit.

       --version
              Show the version and exit.

OPTIONS
   Generic build options
       -ccontrol-file
              Specifies  the  main  source control file to read information from. The default is debian/control.  If
              given with relative pathname this is interpreted starting at the source tree's top level directory.

       -lchangelog-file
              Specifies the changelog file to read information from. The default is debian/changelog.  If given with
              relative pathname this is interpreted starting at the source tree's top level directory.

       -Fchangelog-format
              Specifies  the  format  of the changelog. See dpkg-parsechangelog(1) for information about alternative
              formats.

       --format=value
              Use the given format  for  building  the  source  package.  It  does  override  any  format  given  in
              debian/source/format.

       -Vname=value
              Set an output substitution variable.  See deb-substvars(5) for a discussion of output substitution.

       -Tsubstvars-file
              Read substitution variables in substvars-file; the default is to not read any file. This option can be
              used multiple times to read substitution variables from multiple files.

       -Dfield=value
              Override or add an output control file field.

       -Ufield
              Remove an output control file field.

       -Zcompression, --compression=compression
              Specify the compression to use for created files (tarballs and diffs).  Note that this option will not
              cause  existing  tarballs  to  be recompressed, it only affects new files. Supported values are: gzip,
              bzip2, lzma and xz.  gzip is the default. xz is only supported since dpkg 1.15.5.

       -zlevel, --compression-level=level
              Compression level to use. As with -Z it only affects newly created files. Supported values are:  1  to
              9, best, and fast.  The default is 9 for gzip and bzip2, 6 for xz and lzma.

       -i[regex], --diff-ignore[=regex]
              You  may  specify  a perl regular expression to match files you want filtered out of the list of files
              for the diff. (This list is generated by a find command.) (If the source package is being built  as  a
              version 3 source package using a VCS, this can be used to ignore uncommited changes on specific files.
              Using -i.* will ignore all of them.)

              The -i option by itself enables this setting with a default regex (preserving any modification to  the
              default  regex  done by a previous use of --extend-diff-ignore) that will filter out control files and
              directories of the most common revision control systems, backup and swap files and Libtool build  out‐
              put  directories.  There  can  only be one active regex, of multiple -i options only the last one will
              take effect.

              This is very helpful in cutting out extraneous files that get included in the diff, e.g. if you  main‐
              tain  your  source  in  a revision control system and want to use a checkout to build a source package
              without including the additional files and directories  that  it  will  usually  contain  (e.g.  CVS/,
              .cvsignore,  .svn/).  The  default  regex  is  already very exhaustive, but if you need to replace it,
              please note that by default it can match any part of a path, so if you want to match the  begin  of  a
              filename  or  only  full  filenames,  you  will  need  to provide the necessary anchors (e.g. '(^|/)',
              '($|/)') yourself.

       --extend-diff-ignore=regex
              The perl regular expression specified will extend the default value used by --diff-ignore and its cur‐
              rent  value  (if  set).  It does this by concatenating "|regex" to the existing value.  This option is
              convenient to use in debian/source/options to exclude some auto-generated  files  from  the  automatic
              patch generation.

       -I[file-pattern], --tar-ignore[=file-pattern]
              If this option is specified, the pattern will be passed to tar(1)'s --exclude option when it is called
              to generate a .orig.tar or .tar file. For example, -ICVS will make tar skip over CVS directories  when
              generating  a  .tar.gz  file.  The  option may be repeated multiple times to list multiple patterns to
              exclude.

              -I by itself adds default --exclude options that will filter out control files and directories of  the
              most common revision control systems, backup and swap files and Libtool build output directories.

       Note:  While  they  have similar purposes, -i and -I have very different syntax and semantics. -i can only be
       specified once and takes a perl compatible regular expression which is matched against the full relative path
       of each file. -I can specified multiple times and takes a filename pattern with shell wildcards.  The pattern
       is applied to the full relative path but also to each part of the path individually. The  exact  semantic  of
       tar's  --exclude  option  is somewhat complicated, see https://www.gnu.org/software/tar/manual/tar.html#wild‐
       cards for a full documentation.

       The default regex and patterns for both options can be seen in the output of the --help command.

   Generic extract options
       --no-copy
              Do not copy original tarballs near the extracted source package.

       --no-check
              Do not check signatures and checksums before unpacking.

       --require-valid-signature
              Refuse to unpack the source package if it doesn't contain an OpenPGP signature that  can  be  verified
              either  with  the  user's  trustedkeys.gpg keyring, one of the vendor-specific keyrings, or one of the
              official Debian keyrings (/usr/share/keyrings/debian-keyring.gpg and  /usr/share/keyrings/debian-main‐
              tainers.gpg).


SOURCE PACKAGE FORMATS
       If you don't know what source format to use, you should probably pick either "3.0 (quilt)" or "3.0 (native)".
       See https://wiki.debian.org/Projects/DebSrc3.0 for information on the  deployment  of  those  formats  within
       Debian.


   Format: 1.0
       A  source  package  in  this  format  consists  either of a .orig.tar.gz associated to a .diff.gz or a single
       .tar.gz (in that case the package is said to be native).

       Extracting

       Extracting a native package is a simple extraction of the single tarball in the target directory.  Extracting
       a non-native package is done by first unpacking the .orig.tar.gz and then applying the patch contained in the
       .diff.gz file. The timestamp of all patched files is reset to the extraction time of the source package (this
       avoids  timestamp  skews  leading  to problems when autogenerated files are patched). The diff can create new
       files (the whole debian directory is created that way) but can't remove  files  (empty  files  will  be  left
       over).

       Building

       Building  a native package is just creating a single tarball with the source directory. Building a non-native
       package involves extracting the original tarball  in  a  separate  ".orig"  directory  and  regenerating  the
       .diff.gz by comparing the source package directory with the .orig directory.

       Build options (with -b):

       If a second non-option argument is supplied it should be the name of the original source directory or tarfile
       or the empty string if the package is a Debian-specific one and so has no Debianisation diffs. If  no  second
       argument  is  supplied  then  dpkg-source  will  look  for  the original source tarfile package_upstream-ver‐
       sion.orig.tar.gz or the original source directory directory.orig depending on the -sX arguments.

       -sa, -sp, -sk, -su and -sr will not overwrite existing tarfiles or directories. If this is desired then  -sA,
       -sP, -sK, -sU and -sR should be used instead.

       -sk    Specifies   to   expect   the   original   source  as  a  tarfile,  by  default  package_upstream-ver‐
              sion.orig.tar.extension.  It will leave this original source in place as a tarfile, or copy it to  the
              current  directory if it isn't already there. The tarball will be unpacked into directory.orig for the
              generation of the diff.

       -sp    Like -sk but will remove the directory again afterwards.

       -su    Specifies that the original source is  expected  as  a  directory,  by  default  package-upstream-ver‐
              sion.orig and dpkg-source will create a new original source archive from it.

       -sr    Like -su but will remove that directory after it has been used.

       -ss    Specifies that the original source is available both as a directory and as a tarfile. dpkg-source will
              use the directory to create the diff, but the tarfile to create the .dsc.  This option  must  be  used
              with care - if the directory and tarfile do not match a bad source archive will be generated.

       -sn    Specifies  to  not  look for any original source, and to not generate a diff.  The second argument, if
              supplied, must be the empty string. This is used for Debian-specific packages which do not have a sep‐
              arate upstream source and therefore have no debianisation diffs.

       -sa or -sA
              Specifies  to  look  for the original source archive as a tarfile or as a directory - the second argu‐
              ment, if any, may be either, or the empty string (this is equivalent to using -sn).  If a  tarfile  is
              found  it will unpack it to create the diff and remove it afterwards (this is equivalent to -sp); if a
              directory is found it will pack it to create the original source and remove  it  afterwards  (this  is
              equivalent  to  -sr);  if neither is found it will assume that the package has no debianisation diffs,
              only a straightforward source archive (this is equivalent to -sn).  If both are found then dpkg-source
              will  ignore  the directory, overwriting it, if -sA was specified (this is equivalent to -sP) or raise
              an error if -sa was specified.  -sA is the default.

       --abort-on-upstream-changes
              The process fails if the generated diff contains changes to files outside of the debian sub-directory.
              This option is not allowed in debian/source/options but can be used in debian/source/local-options.

              Extract options (with -x):

              In all cases any existing original source tree will be removed.

       -sp    Used when extracting then the original source (if any) will be left as a tarfile. If it is not already
              located in the current directory or if an existing but different file  is  there  it  will  be  copied
              there.  (This is the default).

       -su    Unpacks the original source tree.

       -sn    Ensures that the original source is neither copied to the current directory nor unpacked. Any original
              source tree that was in the current directory is still removed.

       All the -sX options are mutually exclusive. If you specify more than one only the last one will be used.

       --skip-debianization
              Skips application of the debian diff on top of the upstream sources.

   Format: 2.0
       Also known as wig&pen. This format is not  recommended  for  wide-spread  usage,  the  format  "3.0  (quilt)"
       replaces it. Wig&pen was the first specification of a new-generation source package format.

       The  behaviour  of this format is the same as the "3.0 (quilt)" format except that it doesn't use an explicit
       list of patches. All files in debian/patches/ matching the perl  regular  expression  [\w-]+  must  be  valid
       patches: they are applied at extraction time.

       When  building  a  new  source  package,  any  change  to  the  upstream  source  is  stored in a patch named
       zz_debian-diff-auto.

   Format: 3.0 (native)
       This format is an extension of the native package format as defined in the 1.0 format. It supports  all  com‐
       pression  methods and will ignore by default any VCS specific files and directories as well as many temporary
       files (see default value associated to -I option in the --help output).

   Format: 3.0 (quilt)
       A source package in this format contains at least an original tarball (.orig.tar.ext where  ext  can  be  gz,
       bz2,  lzma  and  xz) and a debian tarball (.debian.tar.ext). It can also contain additional original tarballs
       (.orig-component.tar.ext).  component can only contain alphanumeric characters and hyphens ("-").

       Extracting

       The main original tarball is extracted first, then all additional original tarballs are extracted  in  subdi‐
       rectories  named  after  the  component  part of their filename (any pre-existing directory is replaced). The
       debian tarball is extracted on top of the source directory after prior removal  of  any  pre-existing  debian
       directory.  Note  that  the debian tarball must contain a debian sub-directory but it can also contain binary
       files outside of that directory (see --include-binaries option).

       All patches listed in debian/patches/debian.series or debian/patches/series are then applied.  If the  former
       file  is  used and the latter one doesn't exist (or is a symlink), then the latter is replaced with a symlink
       to the former. This is meant to simplify usage of quilt to manage the set of patches. Note however that while
       dpkg-source  parses  correctly  series files with explicit options used for patch application (stored on each
       line after the patch filename and one or more spaces), it does ignore those options and always expect patches
       that  can  be  applied  with  the  -p1  option  of patch. It will thus emit a warning when it encounters such
       options, and the build is likely to fail.

       Contrary to quilt's default behaviour, patches are expected to apply without any fuzz. When that is  not  the
       case, you should refresh such patches with quilt, or dpkg-source will error out while trying to apply them.

       Similarly to quilt's default behaviour, the patches can remove files too.

       The file .pc/applied-patches is created if some patches have been applied during the extraction.

       Building

       All  original tarballs found in the current directory are extracted in a temporary directory by following the
       same logic as for the unpack, the debian directory is copied over in the temporary directory, and all patches
       except the automatic patch (debian-changes-version or debian-changes, depending on --single-debian-patch) are
       applied. The temporary directory is compared to the source package directory. When the diff is non-empty, the
       build  fails unless --single-debian-patch or --auto-commit has been used, in which case the diff is stored in
       the automatic patch.  If the automatic patch is created/deleted, it's added/removed from the series file  and
       from the quilt metadata.

       Any  change  on a binary file is not representable in a diff and will thus lead to a failure unless the main‐
       tainer deliberately decided to include that modified binary file in the debian  tarball  (by  listing  it  in
       debian/source/include-binaries).  The  build will also fail if it finds binary files in the debian sub-direc‐
       tory unless they have been whitelisted through debian/source/include-binaries.

       The updated debian directory and the list of modified binaries is then used to generate the debian tarball.

       The automatically generated diff doesn't include changes on VCS specific files  as  well  as  many  temporary
       files (see default value associated to -i option in the --help output). In particular, the .pc directory used
       by quilt is ignored during generation of the automatic patch.

       Note: dpkg-source --before-build (and -b) will ensure that all patches listed in the series file are  applied
       so  that  a package build always has all patches applied. It does this by finding unapplied patches (they are
       listed in the series file but not in .pc/applied-patches), and if the first patch in that set can be  applied
       without errors, it will apply them all. The option --no-preparation can be used to disable this behavior.


       Recording changes

       --commit [directory] [patch-name] [patch-file]
              Generates  a  patch  corresponding to the local changes that are not managed by the quilt patch system
              and integrates it in the patch system under the name patch-name. If the name is missing,  it  will  be
              asked  interactively.  If  patch-file  is  given,  it  is used as the patch corresponding to the local
              changes to integrate. Once integrated, an editor is launched so that you can edit the meta-information
              in the patch header.

              Passing  patch-file  is  mainly useful after a build failure that pre-generated this file, and on this
              ground the given file is removed after integration. Note also that the changes contained in the  patch
              file  must  already be applied on the tree and that the files modified by the patch must not have sup‐
              plementary unrecorded changes.

              If the  patch  generation  detects  modified  binary  files,  they  will  be  automatically  added  to
              debian/source/include-binaries  so  that  they  end up in the debian tarball (exactly like dpkg-source
              --include-binaries -b would do).

       Build options

       --allow-version-of-quilt-db=version
              Allow dpkg-source to build the source package if the version of the quilt metadata is the  one  speci‐
              fied,  even  if dpkg-source doesn't know about it. Effectively this says that the given version of the
              quilt metadata is compatible with the version 2 that dpkg-source currently supports.  The  version  of
              the quilt metadata is stored in .pc/.version.

       --include-removal
              Do not ignore removed files and include them in the automatically generated patch.

       --include-timestamp
              Include timestamp in the automatically generated patch.

       --include-binaries
              Add all modified binaries in the debian tarball. Also add them to debian/source/include-binaries: they
              will be added by default in subsequent builds and this option is thus no more needed.

       --no-preparation
              Do not try to prepare the build tree by applying patches which are apparently unapplied.

       --single-debian-patch
              Use debian/patches/debian-changes instead of debian/patches/debian-changes-version for the name of the
              automatic  patch  generated during build. This option is particularly useful when the package is main‐
              tained in a VCS and a patch set can't reliably be generated. Instead the current  diff  with  upstream
              should  be  stored in a single patch. The option would be put in debian/source/local-options and would
              be accompanied by a debian/source/local-patch-header file explaining how the  Debian  changes  can  be
              best reviewed, for example in the VCS that is used.

       --create-empty-orig
              Automatically create the main original tarball as empty if it's missing and if there are supplementary
              original tarballs. This option is meant to be used when the source package is just a bundle of  multi‐
              ple upstream software and where there's no "main" software.

       --no-unapply-patches, --unapply-patches
              By  default,  dpkg-source  will  automatically unapply the patches in the --after-build hook if it did
              apply them during --before-build. Those options allow you to forcefully disable or  enable  the  patch
              unapplication  process. Those options are only allowed in debian/source/local-options so that all gen‐
              erated source packages have the same behavior by default.

       --abort-on-upstream-changes
              The process fails if an automatic patch has been generated. This option can be used to ensure that all
              changes  were  properly  recorded  in  separate  quilt patches prior to the source package build. This
              option is not allowed in debian/source/options but can be used in debian/source/local-options.

       --auto-commit
              The process doesn't fail if an automatic patch has been generated, instead it's  immediately  recorded
              in the quilt series.


       Extract options

       --skip-debianization
              Skips extraction of the debian tarball on top of the upstream sources.

       --skip-patches
              Do not apply patches at the end of the extraction.

   Format: 3.0 (custom)
       This  format  is  special. It doesn't represent a real source package format but can be used to create source
       packages with arbitrary files.

       Build options

       All non-option arguments are taken as files to integrate in the generated source package. They must exist and
       are preferably in the current directory. At least one file must be given.

       --target-format=value
              Required.  Defines the real format of the generated source package.  The generated .dsc file will con‐
              tain this value in its Format field and not "3.0 (custom)".

   Format: 3.0 (git)
       This format is experimental.

       A source package in this format consists of a single bundle of a git repository .git to hold the source of  a
       package.  There may also be a .gitshallow file listing revisions for a shallow git clone.

       Extracting

       The  bundle  is  cloned  as  a  git repository to the target directory.  If there is a gitshallow file, it is
       installed as `.git/shallow` inside the cloned git repository.

       Note that by default the new repository will have the same branch checked out that was  checked  out  in  the
       original  source.  (Typically "master", but it could be anything.) Any other branches will be available under
       `remotes/origin/`.

       Building

       Before going any further, some checks are done to ensure that  we  don't  have  any  non-ignored  uncommitted
       changes.

       git-bundle(1)  is  used to generate a bundle of the git repository.  By default, all branches and tags in the
       repository are included in the bundle.

       Build options

       --git-ref=ref
              Allows specifying a git ref to include in the git bundle. Use disables the default behavior of includ‐
              ing all branches and tags. May be specified multiple times. The ref can be the name of a branch or tag
              to include. It may also be any parameter that can  be  passed  to  git-rev-list(1).  For  example,  to
              include only the master branch, use --git-ref=master. To include all tags and branches, except for the
              private branch, use --git-ref=--all --git-ref=^private

       --git-depth=number
              Creates a shallow clone with a history truncated to the specified number of revisions.

   Format: 3.0 (bzr)
       This format is experimental. It generates a single tarball containing the bzr repository.

       Extracting

       The tarball is unpacked and then bzr is used to checkout the current branch.

       Building

       Before going any further, some checks are done to ensure that  we  don't  have  any  non-ignored  uncommitted
       changes.

       Then  the VCS specific part of the source directory is copied over to a temporary directory. Before this tem‐
       porary directory is packed in a tarball, various cleanup are done to save space.

DIAGNOSTICS
   no source format specified in debian/source/format
       The file debian/source/format should always exist and indicate the desired source format. For backwards  com‐
       patibility,  format  "1.0"  is  assumed  when the file doesn't exist but you should not rely on this: at some
       point in the future dpkg-source will be modified to fail when that file doesn't exist.

       The rationale is that format "1.0" is no longer the recommended format, you should usually pick  one  of  the
       newer formats ("3.0 (quilt)", "3.0 (native)") but dpkg-source will not do this automatically for you.  If you
       want to continue using the old format, you should be explicit about it and put "1.0" in debian/source/format.

   the diff modifies the following upstream files
       When using source format "1.0" it is usually a bad idea to modify upstream files directly as the changes  end
       up  hidden  and mostly undocumented in the .diff.gz file. Instead you should store your changes as patches in
       the debian directory and apply them at build-time. To avoid this complexity you can also use the format  "3.0
       (quilt)" that offers this natively.

   cannot represent change to file
       Changes  to upstream sources are usually stored with patch files, but not all changes can be represented with
       patches: they can only alter the content of plain text files. If you try replacing a file with something of a
       different  type  (for  example replacing a plain file with a symlink or a directory), you will get this error
       message.

   newly created empty file file will not be represented in diff
       Empty files can't be created with patch files. Thus this change is not recorded in the source package and you
       are warned about it.

   executable mode perms of file will not be represented in diff
       Patch  files  do not record permissions of files and thus executable permissions are not stored in the source
       package. This warning reminds you of that fact.

   special mode perms of file will not be represented in diff
       Patch files do not record permissions of files and thus modified permissions are not  stored  in  the  source
       package. This warning reminds you of that fact.

FILE FORMATS
   debian/source/format
       This file contains on a single line the format that should be used to build the source package (possible for‐
       mats are described above). No leading or trailing spaces are allowed.

   debian/source/include-binaries
       This file contains a list of binary files (one per line) that should be included in the debian tarball. Lead‐
       ing  and trailing spaces are stripped.  Lines starting with "#" are comments and are skipped. Empty lines are
       ignored.

   debian/source/options
       This file contains a list of long options that should be automatically prepended to the set of  command  line
       options  of  a  dpkg-source  -b or dpkg-source --print-format call. Options like --compression and --compres‐
       sion-level are well suited for this file.

       Each option should be put on a separate line. Empty lines and lines starting with "#" are ignored. The  lead‐
       ing  "--"  should  be  stripped and short options are not allowed. Optional spaces are allowed around the "="
       symbol and optional quotes are allowed around the value.  Here's an example of such a file:

         # let dpkg-source create a debian.tar.bz2 with maximal compression
         compression = "bzip2"
         compression-level = 9
         # use debian/patches/debian-changes as automatic patch
         single-debian-patch
         # ignore changes on config.{sub,guess}
         extend-diff-ignore = "(^|/)(config.sub|config.guess)$"

       Note: format options are not accepted in this file, you should use debian/source/format instead.

   debian/source/local-options
       Exactly like debian/source/options except that the file is not included in the generated source  package.  It
       can  be useful to store a preference tied to the maintainer or to the VCS repository where the source package
       is maintained.

   debian/source/local-patch-header and debian/source/patch-header
       Free form text that is put on top of the automatic  patch  generated  in  formats  "2.0"  or  "3.0  (quilt)".
       local-patch-header is not included in the generated source package while patch-header is.

   debian/patches/series
       This  file lists all patches that have to be applied (in the given order) on top of the upstream source pack‐
       age. Leading and trailing spaces are stripped. Lines starting with "#" are comments and  are  skipped.  Empty
       lines are ignored. Remaining lines start with a patch filename (relative to the debian/patches/ directory) up
       to the first space character or the end of line. Optional quilt options can follow up to the end of  line  or
       the first "#" preceded by one or more spaces (which marks the start of a comment up to the end of line).

BUGS
       The  point at which field overriding occurs compared to certain standard output field settings is rather con‐
       fused.

SEE ALSO
       dpkg-deb(1), dpkg(1), dselect(1).



Debian Project                                       2013-12-05                                       dpkg-source(1)
