dpkg-parsechangelog(1)                             dpkg utilities                             dpkg-parsechangelog(1)



NAME
       dpkg-parsechangelog - parse Debian changelog files

SYNOPSIS
       dpkg-parsechangelog [option...]

DESCRIPTION
       dpkg-parsechangelog reads and parses the changelog of an unpacked Debian source tree and outputs the informa‐
       tion in it to standard output in a machine-readable form.

OPTIONS
       -lchangelog-file
              Specifies the changelog file to read information from. A '-' can be used to specify reading from stan‐
              dard input. The default is debian/changelog.

       -Fchangelog-format
              Specifies the format of the changelog. By default the format is read from a special line near the bot‐
              tom of the changelog or failing that defaults to the debian standard format. See also  CHANGELOG  FOR‐
              MATS.

       -Llibdir
              Specify  an  additional directory to search for parser scripts.  This directory is searched before the
              default directories which  are  currently  /usr/local/lib/dpkg/parsechangelog  and  /usr/lib/dpkg/par‐
              sechangelog.

       -S, --show-field field
              Specifies  the name of the field to show (since dpkg 1.17.0).  The field name is not printed, only its
              value.

       -?, --help
              Show the usage message and exit.

       --version
              Show the version and exit.

   Parser Options
       The following options can be used to influence the output of the changelog parser, e.g. the range of  entries
       or the format of the output. They need to be supported by the parser script in question. See also NOTES.

       --file file
              Set the changelog filename to parse. Default is '-' (standard input).

       -l, --label file
              Set the name of the changelog file to use in error messages, instead of using the name from the --file
              option, or its default value.

       --format output-format
              Set the output format. Currently supported values are dpkg and rfc822.  dpkg  is  the  classic  output
              format  (from before this option existed) and the default. It consists of one paragraph in Debian con‐
              trol format (see deb-control(5)). If more than one entry is requested, then most fields are taken from
              the most recent entry, except otherwise stated:

              Source: pkg-name

              Version: version

              Distribution: target-distribution

              Urgency: urgency
                     The  highest urgency of all included entries is used, followed by the concatenated (space-sepa‐
                     rated) comments from all the versions requested.

              Maintainer: author

              Date: date

              Closes: bug-number
                     The Closes fields of all included entries are merged.

              Changes: changelog-entries
                     The text of all changelog entries is concatenated. To make this field a  valid  Debian  control
                     format  multiline  field  empty  lines  are  replaced  with a single full stop and all lines is
                     intended by one space character. The exact content depends on the changelog format.

              The Version, Distribution, Urgency, Maintainer and Changes fields are mandatory.

              There might be additional user-defined fields present.

              The rfc822 format uses the same fields but outputs a separate paragraph for each  changelog  entry  so
              that all metadata for each entry is preserved.

       --since version, -sversion, -vversion
              include all changes later than version.

       --until version, -uversion
              include all changes earlier than version.

       --from version, -fversion
              include all changes equal or later than version.

       --to version, -tversion
              include all changes up to or equal than version.

       --count number, -cnumber, -nnumber
              include number entries from the top (or the tail if number is lower than 0).

       --offset number, -onumber
              change the starting point for --count, counted from the top (or the tail if number is lower than 0).

       --all  include all changes. Note: other options have no effect when this is in use.

CHANGELOG FORMATS
       It is possible to use a different format to the standard one, by providing a parser for that alternative for‐
       mat.

       In order to have dpkg-parsechangelog run the new parser, a line must be included within the last 40 lines  of
       the changelog file, matching the Perl regular expression: “\schangelog-format:\s+([0-9a-z]+)\W”.  The part in
       parentheses should be the name of the format. For example:

              @@@ changelog-format: otherformat @@@

       Changelog format names are non-empty strings of alphanumerics.

       If such a line exists then dpkg-parsechangelog will look for the parser as  /usr/lib/dpkg/parsechangelog/oth‐
       erformat  or  /usr/local/lib/dpkg/parsechangelog/otherformat;  it is an error for it not being present or not
       being an executable program.  The default changelog format is debian, and a parser  for  it  is  provided  by
       default.

       The parser will be invoked with the changelog open on standard input at the start of the file. It should read
       the file (it may seek if it wishes) to determine the information required and return the  parsed  information
       to standard output in the format specified by the --format option.  It should accept all Parser Options.

       If  the changelog format which is being parsed always or almost always leaves a blank line between individual
       change notes, these blank lines should be stripped out, so as to make the resulting output compact.

       If the changelog format does not contain date or package name information this information should be  omitted
       from the output. The parser should not attempt to synthesize it or find it from other sources.

       If  the changelog does not have the expected format the parser should exit with a nonzero exit status, rather
       than trying to muddle through and possibly generating incorrect output.

       A changelog parser may not interact with the user at all.

NOTES
       All Parser Options except for -v are only supported since dpkg 1.14.16. Third  party  parsers  for  changelog
       formats other than debian might not support all options.

FILES
       debian/changelog
              The changelog file, used to obtain version-dependent information about the source package, such as the
              urgency and distribution of an upload, the changes made since a particular  release,  and  the  source
              version number itself.



Debian Project                                       2013-07-06                               dpkg-parsechangelog(1)
