dpkg-scanpackages(1)                               dpkg utilities                               dpkg-scanpackages(1)



NAME
       dpkg-scanpackages - create Packages index files

SYNOPSIS
       dpkg-scanpackages [option...] binary-dir [override-file [path-prefix]] > Packages

DESCRIPTION
       dpkg-scanpackages sorts through a tree of Debian binary packages and creates a Packages file, used by apt(8),
       dselect(1), etc, to tell the user what packages are available for installation. These Packages files are  the
       same as those found on Debian archive sites and CD-ROMs. You might use dpkg-scanpackages yourself if making a
       directory of local packages to install on a cluster of machines.

       Note: If you want to access the generated Packages file with apt you will probably need to compress the  file
       with bzip2(1) (generating a Packages.bz2 file) or gzip(1) (generating a Packages.gz file). apt ignores uncom‐
       pressed Packages files except on local access (i.e.  file:// sources).

       binary-dir is the name of the tree of the binary packages to process (for example, contrib/binary-i386).   It
       is  best  to  make  this  relative to the root of the Debian archive, because every Filename field in the new
       Packages file will start with this string.

       override-file is the name of a file to read which contains information about how the package  fits  into  the
       distribution (it can be a compressed file); see deb-override(5).

       path-prefix is an optional string to be prepended to the Filename fields.

       If  more  than  one version of a package is found only the newest one is included in the output. If they have
       the same version and only differ in architecture only the first one found is used.

OPTIONS
       -t, --type type
              Scan for *.type packages, instead of *.deb.

       -e, --extra-override file
              Scan file to find supplementary overrides (the file can be compressed). See deb-extra-override(5)  for
              more information on its format.

       -a, --arch arch
              Use a pattern consisting of *_all.deb and *_arch.deb instead of scanning for all debs.

       -m, --multiversion
              Include all found packages in the output.

       -M, --medium id-string
              Add  an  X-Medium field containing the value id-string. This field is required if you want to generate
              Packages.cd files for use by the multicd access method of dselect.

       -?, --help
              Show the usage message and exit.

       --version
              Show the version and exit.

DIAGNOSTICS
       dpkg-scanpackages outputs the usual self-explanatory errors. It also warns about packages  that  are  in  the
       wrong  subdirectory,  are duplicated, have a Filename field in their control file, are missing from the over‐
       ride file, or have maintainer substitutions which do not take effect.

SEE ALSO
       dpkg(1), dselect(1), deb-override(5), deb-extra-override(5), dpkg-scansources(1).



Debian Project                                       2012-05-07                                 dpkg-scanpackages(1)
