dpkg-checkbuilddeps(1)                             dpkg utilities                             dpkg-checkbuilddeps(1)



NAME
       dpkg-checkbuilddeps - check build dependencies and conflicts

SYNOPSIS
       dpkg-checkbuilddeps [option...]  [control-file]

DESCRIPTION
       This  program  checks the installed packages in the system against the build dependencies and build conflicts
       listed in the control file. If any are not met, it displays them and exits with a nonzero return code.

       By default, debian/control is read, but an alternate control filename may be specified on the command line.

OPTIONS
       --admindir=dir
              Change the location of the dpkg database. The default location is /var/lib/dpkg.

       -A     Ignore Build-Depends-Arch and Build-Conflicts-Arch lines. Use when only arch-indep  packages  will  be
              built, or combine with -B when only a source package is to be built.

       -B     Ignore  Build-Depends-Indep  and  Build-Conflicts-Indep lines. Use when only arch-dep packages will be
              built, or combine with -A when only a source package is to be built.

       -d build-depends-string

       -c build-conflicts-string
              Use the given build dependencies/conflicts instead of those contained in the debian/control file.

       -a arch
              Check build dependencies/conflicts assuming that the package described in the control file  is  to  be
              built for the given host architecture instead of the architecture of the current system.

       -P profile[,...]
              Check  build  dependencies/conflicts  assuming that the package described in the control file is to be
              built for the given build profile(s). The argument is a comma-separated list of profile names, without
              the "profile." namespace prefix.

       -?, --help
              Show the usage message and exit.

       --version
              Show the version and exit.

ENVIRONMENT
       DEB_BUILD_PROFILES
              If set, it will be used as the active build profile(s) for the package being built. It is a space sep‐
              arated list of profile names, without the "profile." namespace prefix. Overridden by the -P option.



Debian Project                                       2013-09-17                               dpkg-checkbuilddeps(1)
