dpkg-maintscript-helper(1)                           dpkg suite                           dpkg-maintscript-helper(1)



NAME
       dpkg-maintscript-helper - works around known dpkg limitations in maintainer scripts

SYNOPSIS
       dpkg-maintscript-helper command [parameter...] -- maint-script-parameter...

COMMANDS AND PARAMETERS
       rm_conffile conffile [prior-version [package]]

       mv_conffile old-conffile new-conffile [prior-version [package]]

       symlink_to_dir pathname old-target [prior-version [package]]

       dir_to_symlink pathname new-target [prior-version [package]]

DESCRIPTION
       This program is designed to be run within maintainer scripts to achieve some tasks that dpkg can't (yet) han‐
       dle natively either because of design decisions or due to current limitations.

       Many of those tasks require coordinated actions from several maintainer scripts  (preinst,  postinst,  prerm,
       postrm). To avoid mistakes the same call simply needs to be put in all scripts and the program will automati‐
       cally adapt its behaviour based on the environment  variable  DPKG_MAINTSCRIPT_NAME  and  on  the  maintainer
       scripts arguments that you have to forward after a double hyphen.

COMMON PARAMETERS
       prior-version
              Defines  the latest version of the package whose upgrade should trigger the operation. It is important
              to calculate prior-version correctly so that the operations are correctly performed even if  the  user
              rebuilt  the package with a local version. If prior-version is empty or omitted, then the operation is
              tried on every upgrade (note: it's safer to give the version and have the operation tried only once).

              For example, for a conffile removed in version 2.0-1 of a package,  prior-version  should  be  set  to
              2.0-1~. This will cause the conffile to be removed even if the user rebuilt the previous version 1.0-1
              as 1.0-1local1.

              If the conffile has not been shipped for several versions, and you are now  modifying  the  maintainer
              scripts  to  clean  up  the obsolete file, prior-version should be based on the version of the package
              that you are now preparing, not the first version of the package that lacked the conffile.

       package
              The package name. When the package is "Multi-Arch: same", this parameter must include the architecture
              qualifier.  If  empty  or  omitted, the DPKG_MAINTSCRIPT_PACKAGE environment variable (as set by dpkg)
              will be used.

       --     All the parameters of the maintainer scripts have to be forwarded to the program after --.

CONFFILE RELATED TASKS
       When upgrading a package, dpkg will not automatically remove a conffile (a configuration file for which  dpkg
       should  preserve user changes) if it is not present in the newer version. There are two principal reasons for
       this; the first is that the conffile could've been dropped by accident and the next version could restore it,
       users  wouldn't  want  their  changes thrown away. The second is to allow packages to transition files from a
       dpkg-maintained conffile to a file maintained by the package's maintainer scripts, usually with a  tool  like
       debconf or ucf.

       This  means  that  if  a  package  is  intended  to rename or remove a conffile, it must explicitly do so and
       dpkg-maintscript-helper can be used to implement graceful deletion and moving of conffiles within  maintainer
       scripts.

   Removing a conffile
       If  a  conffile  is  completely  removed, it should be removed from disk, unless the user has modified it. If
       there are local modifications, they should be preserved. If the package upgrades aborts, the  newly  obsolete
       conffile should not disappear.

       All  of  this is implemented by putting the following shell snippet in the preinst, postinst and postrm main‐
       tainer scripts:

           dpkg-maintscript-helper rm_conffile \
               conffile prior-version package -- "$@"

       conffile is the filename of the conffile to remove.

       Current implementation: in the preinst, it checks if the conffile was modified and renames it either to conf‐
       file.dpkg-remove (if not modified) or to conffile.dpkg-backup (if modified). In the postinst, the latter file
       is renamed to conffile.dpkg-bak and kept for reference as it contains user modifications but the former  will
       be  removed.  If  the  package upgrade aborts, the postrm reinstalls the original conffile. During purge, the
       postrm will also delete the .dpkg-bak file kept up to now.

   Renaming a conffile
       If a conffile is moved from one location to another, you need to make sure you move across  any  changes  the
       user  has made. This may seem a simple change to the preinst script at first, however that will result in the
       user being prompted by dpkg to approve the conffile edits even though they are not responsible of them.

       Graceful renaming can be implemented by putting the following shell snippet  in  the  preinst,  postinst  and
       postrm maintainer scripts:

           dpkg-maintscript-helper mv_conffile \
               old-conffile new-conffile prior-version package -- "$@"

       old-conffile and new-conffile are the old and new name of the conffile to rename.

       Current  implementation: the preinst checks if the conffile has been modified, if yes it's left on place oth‐
       erwise  it's  renamed  to  old-conffile.dpkg-remove.  On  configuration,  the  postinst   removes   old-conf‐
       file.dpkg-remove   and   renames  old-conffile  to  new-conffile  if  old-conffile  is  still  available.  On
       abort-upgrade/abort-install, the postrm renames old-conffile.dpkg-remove back to old-conffile if required.

SYMLINK AND DIRECTORY SWITCHES
       When upgrading a package, dpkg will not automatically switch a symlink to a directory or vice-versa.

   Switching a symlink to directory
       If a symlink is switched to a real directory, you need to make sure before  unpacking  that  the  symlink  is
       removed. This may seem a simple change to the preinst script at first, however that will result in some prob‐
       lems in case of admin local customization of the symlink or when downgrading the package.

       Graceful renaming can be implemented by putting the following shell snippet  in  the  preinst,  postinst  and
       postrm maintainer scripts:

           dpkg-maintscript-helper symlink_to_dir \
               pathname old-target prior-version package -- "$@"

       pathname  is  the  name  of the old symlink (the path will be a directory at the end of the installation) and
       old-target the target of the former symlink at pathname.

       Current implementation: the preinst checks if the symlink exists and points to old-target, if not  then  it's
       left  in  place, otherwise it's renamed to pathname.dpkg-backup. On configuration, the postinst removes path‐
       name.dpkg-backup if pathname.dpkg-backup is still  a  symlink.  On  abort-upgrade/abort-install,  the  postrm
       renames pathname.dpkg-backup back to pathname if required.

   Switching a directory to symlink
       If  a  real  directory is switched to a symlink, you need to make sure before unpacking that the directory is
       removed. This may seem a simple change to the preinst script at first, however that will result in some prob‐
       lems  in case the directory contains conffiles, pathnames owned by other packages, locally created pathnames,
       or when downgrading the package.

       Graceful switching can be implemented by putting the following shell snippet in  the  preinst,  postinst  and
       postrm maintainer scripts:

           dpkg-maintscript-helper dir_to_symlink \
               pathname new-target prior-version package -- "$@"

       pathname  is the name of the of the old directory (the path will be a symlink at the end of the installation)
       and new-target is the target of the new symlink at pathname.

       Current implementation: the preinst checks if the directory exists, does  not  contain  conffiles,  pathnames
       owned by other packages, or locally created pathnames, if not then it's left in place, otherwise it's renamed
       to pathname.dpkg-backup, and an empty staging directory named pathname is created, marked with a file so that
       dpkg  can  track  it.  On  configuration, the postinst finishes the switch if pathname.dpkg-backup is still a
       directory and pathname is the staging directory; it removes the staging directory mark file, moves the  newly
       created  files inside the staging directory to the symlink target new-target/, replaces the now empty staging
       directory   pathname   with   a   symlink   to   new-target,    and    removes    pathname.dpkg-backup.    On
       abort-upgrade/abort-install, the postrm renames pathname.dpkg-backup back to pathname if required.

INTEGRATION IN PACKAGES
       Given that dpkg-maintscript-helper is used in the preinst, using it unconditionally requires a pre-dependency
       to ensure that the required version of dpkg has been unpacked before. The required  version  depends  on  the
       command  used,  for  rm_conffile  and mv_conffile it is 1.15.7.2, for symlink_to_dir and dir_to_symlink it is
       1.17.5:

           Pre-Depends: dpkg (>= 1.17.5)

       But in many cases the operation done by the program is not critical for the package, and instead of  using  a
       pre-dependency  we  can  call  the program only if we know that the required command is supported by the cur‐
       rently installed dpkg:

           if dpkg-maintscript-helper supports command; then
               dpkg-maintscript-helper command ...
           fi



Debian Project                                       2013-12-11                           dpkg-maintscript-helper(1)
