dpkg-trigger(1)                                      dpkg suite                                      dpkg-trigger(1)



NAME
       dpkg-trigger - a package trigger utility

SYNOPSIS
       dpkg-trigger [option...] trigger-name
       dpkg-trigger [option...] command

DESCRIPTION
       dpkg-trigger is a tool to explicitly activate triggers and check for its support on the running dpkg.

       This  can be used by maintainer scripts in complex and conditional situations where the file triggers, or the
       declarative activate triggers control file directive, are insufficiently rich. It can also be used for  test‐
       ing and by system administrators (but note that the triggers won't actually be run by dpkg-trigger).

       Unrecognized trigger name syntaxes are an error for dpkg-trigger.

COMMANDS
       --check-supported
              Check  if  the running dpkg supports triggers (usually called from a postinst). Will exit 0 if a trig‐
              gers-capable dpkg has run, or 1 with an error message to stderr if not. Normally, however, it is  bet‐
              ter just to activate the desired trigger with dpkg-trigger.

       -?, --help
              Show the usage message and exit.

       --version
              Show the version and exit.

OPTIONS
       --admindir=dir
              Change the location of the dpkg database. The default location is /var/lib/dpkg.

       --by-package=package
              Override  trigger awaiter (normally set by dpkg through the DPKG_MAINTSCRIPT_PACKAGE environment vari‐
              able of the maintainer scripts, naming the package to which the script belongs, and this will be  used
              by default).

       --no-await
              This  option  arranges that the calling package T (if any) need not await the processing of this trig‐
              ger; the interested package(s) I, will not be added to T's trigger processing  awaited  list  and  T's
              status is unchanged.  T may be considered installed even though I may not yet have processed the trig‐
              ger.

       --no-act
              Just test, do not actually change anything.

ENVIRONMENT
       DPKG_ADMINDIR
              If set and the --admindir option has not been specified, it will be used as the dpkg data directory.

SEE ALSO
       dpkg(1), deb-triggers(5), /usr/share/doc/dpkg-dev/triggers.txt.gz.



Debian Project                                       2011-08-14                                      dpkg-trigger(1)
