dpkg-deb(1)                                          dpkg suite                                          dpkg-deb(1)



NAME
       dpkg-deb - Debian package archive (.deb) manipulation tool

SYNOPSIS
       dpkg-deb [option...] command

DESCRIPTION
       dpkg-deb packs, unpacks and provides information about Debian archives.

       Use dpkg to install and remove packages from your system.

       You  can  also  invoke dpkg-deb by calling dpkg with whatever options you want to pass to dpkg-deb. dpkg will
       spot that you wanted dpkg-deb and run it for you.

COMMANDS
       -b, --build directory [archive|directory]
              Creates a debian archive from the filesystem tree stored in directory. directory must  have  a  DEBIAN
              subdirectory,  which  contains  the  control  information  files such as the control file itself. This
              directory will not appear in the binary package's filesystem archive, but instead the files in it will
              be put in the binary package's control information area.

              Unless  you  specify  --nocheck,  dpkg-deb will read DEBIAN/control and parse it. It will check it for
              syntax errors and other problems, and display the name of the binary package  being  built.   dpkg-deb
              will  also check the permissions of the maintainer scripts and other files found in the DEBIAN control
              information directory.

              If no archive is specified then dpkg-deb will write the package into the file directory.deb.

              If the archive to be created already exists it will be overwritten.

              If the second argument is a directory then dpkg-deb will write to the  file  package_version_arch.deb,
              or  package_version.deb if no Architecture field is present in the package control file. When a target
              directory is specified, rather than a file, the --nocheck option may not be used (since dpkg-deb needs
              to read and parse the package control file to determine which filename to use).

       -I, --info archive [control-file-name...]
              Provides information about a binary package archive.

              If  no control-file-names are specified then it will print a summary of the contents of the package as
              well as its control file.

              If any control-file-names are specified then dpkg-deb will print them in the order  they  were  speci‐
              fied; if any of the components weren't present it will print an error message to stderr about each one
              and exit with status 2.

       -W, --show archive
              Provides information about a binary package archive in the format specified by the --showformat  argu‐
              ment.  The  default format displays the package's name and version on one line, separated by a tabula‐
              tor.

       -f, --field archive [control-field-name...]
              Extracts control file information from a binary package archive.

              If no control-file-fields are specified then it will print the whole control file.

              If any are specified then dpkg-deb will print their contents, in the order in which they appear in the
              control  file.  If  more than one control-file-field is specified then dpkg-deb will precede each with
              its field name (and a colon and space).

              No errors are reported for fields requested but not found.

       -c, --contents archive
              Lists the contents of the filesystem tree archive portion of the package archive. It is currently pro‐
              duced in the format generated by tar's verbose listing.

       -x, --extract archive directory
              Extracts the filesystem tree from a package archive into the specified directory.

              Note  that  extracting  a package to the root directory will not result in a correct installation! Use
              dpkg to install packages.

              directory (but not its parents) will be created if necessary, and its permissions  modified  to  match
              the contents of the package.

       -X, --vextract archive directory
              Is like --extract (-x) with --verbose (-v) which prints a listing of the files extracted as it goes.

       -R, --raw-extract archive directory
              Extracts the filesystem tree from a package archive into a specified directory, and the control infor‐
              mation files into a DEBIAN subdirectory of the specified directory.

              The target directory (but not its parents) will be created if necessary.

       --fsys-tarfile archive
              Extracts the filesystem tree data from a binary package and sends it to standard output in tar format.
              Together  with tar(1) this can be used to extract a particular file from a package archive.  The input
              archive will always be processed sequentially.

       -e, --control archive [directory]
              Extracts the control information files from a package archive into the specified directory.

              If no directory is specified then a subdirectory DEBIAN in the current directory is used.

              The target directory (but not its parents) will be created if necessary.

       -?, --help
              Show the usage message and exit.

       --version
              Show the version and exit.

OPTIONS
       --showformat=format
              This option is used to specify the format of the output --show will produce. The format  is  a  string
              that will be output for each package listed.

              The  string  may reference any status field using the "${field-name}" form, a list of the valid fields
              can be easily produced using -I on the same package. A complete explanation of the formatting  options
              (including  escape  sequences  and  field tabbing) can be found in the explanation of the --showformat
              option in dpkg-query(1).

              The default for this field is "${Package}\t${Version}\n".

       -zcompress-level
              Specify which compression level to use on the compressor backend, when building a package (default  is
              9  for  gzip  and bzip2, 6 for xz and lzma).  The accepted values are 0-9 with: 0 being mapped to com‐
              pressor none for gzip and 0 mapped to 1 for bzip2. Before dpkg 1.16.2 level 0 was equivalent  to  com‐
              pressor none for all compressors.

       -Scompress-strategy
              Specify  which  compression  strategy to use on the compressor backend, when building a package (since
              dpkg 1.16.2). Allowed values are none (since dpkg 1.16.4), filtered, huffman, rle and fixed  for  gzip
              (since dpkg 1.17.0) and extreme for xz.

       -Zcompress-type
              Specify  which  compression  type  to use when building a package. Allowed values are gzip, xz, bzip2,
              lzma, and none (default is xz).

       --deb-format=format
              Set the archive format version used when building (since dpkg 1.17.0).  Allowed values are 2.0 for the
              new format, and 0.939000 for the old one (default is 2.0).

              The  old archive format is less easily parsed by non-Debian tools and is now obsolete; its only use is
              when building packages to be parsed by versions of dpkg older than 0.93.76 (September 1995), which was
              released as i386 a.out only.

       --new  This is a legacy alias for --deb-format=2.0.

       --old  This is a legacy alias for --deb-format=0.939000.

       --nocheck
              Inhibits dpkg-deb --build's usual checks on the proposed contents of an archive. You can build any ar‐
              chive you want, no matter how broken, this way.

       -v, --verbose
              Enables verbose output. This currently only affects --extract making it behave like --vextract.

       -D, --debug
              Enables debugging output. This is not very interesting.

ENVIRONMENT
       TMPDIR If set, dpkg-deb will use it as the directory in which to create temporary files and directories.

NOTES
       Do not attempt to use just dpkg-deb to install software! You must use dpkg proper  to  ensure  that  all  the
       files are correctly placed and the package's scripts run and its status and contents recorded.

BUGS
       dpkg-deb -I package1.deb package2.deb does the wrong thing.

       There  is  no  authentication  on  .deb files; in fact, there isn't even a straightforward checksum.  (Higher
       level tools like APT support authenticating .deb packages retrieved from a given repository, and  most  pack‐
       ages nowadays provide an md5sum control file generated by debian/rules. Though this is not directly supported
       by the lower level tools.)

SEE ALSO
       deb(5), deb-control(5), dpkg(1), dselect(1).



Debian Project                                       2013-03-27                                          dpkg-deb(1)
