dpkg-gencontrol(1)                                 dpkg utilities                                 dpkg-gencontrol(1)



NAME
       dpkg-gencontrol - generate Debian control files

SYNOPSIS
       dpkg-gencontrol [option...]

DESCRIPTION
       dpkg-gencontrol  reads information from an unpacked Debian source tree and generates a binary package control
       file (which defaults to debian/tmp/DEBIAN/control); during this process it will simplify the relation fields.

       Thus Pre-Depends, Depends, Recommends and Suggests are simplified in  this  order  by  removing  dependencies
       which  are  known  to  be true according to the stronger dependencies already parsed. It will also remove any
       self-dependency (in fact it will remove any dependency which evaluates to true given the current  version  of
       the  package as installed). Logically it keeps the intersection of multiple dependencies on the same package.
       The order of dependencies is preserved as best as possible: if  any  dependency  must  be  discarded  due  to
       another dependency appearing further in the field, the superseding dependency will take the place of the dis‐
       carded one.

       The other relation fields (Enhances, Conflicts, Breaks, Replaces and Provides) are also simplified  individu‐
       ally by computing the union of the various dependencies when a package is listed multiple times in the field.

       dpkg-gencontrol also adds an entry for the binary package to debian/files.

OPTIONS
       -vversion
              Sets the version number of the binary package which will be generated.

       -Vname=value
              Set an output substitution variable. See deb-substvars(5) for discussion of output substitution.

       -Tsubstvars-file
              Read  substitution  variables  in substvars-file; the default is debian/substvars.  This option can be
              used multiple times to read substitution variables from multiple files.

       -Dfield=value
              Override or add an output control file field.

       -Ufield
              Remove an output control file field.

       -ccontrol-file
              Specifies the main source control file to read information from. The default is debian/control.

       -lchangelog-file
              Specifies the changelog file to read information from. The default is debian/changelog.

       -ffiles-list-file
              Read or write the list of files to be uploaded here, rather than using debian/files.

       -Fchangelog-format
              Specifies the format of the changelog. See dpkg-parsechangelog(1) for  information  about  alternative
              formats.

       -ppackage
              Generate information for the binary package package.  If the source control file lists only one binary
              package then this option may be omitted; otherwise it is essential to select  which  binary  package's
              information to generate.

       -nfilename
              Assume  the  filename  of  the package will be filename instead of the normal package_version_arch.deb
              filename.

       -is, -ip, -isp
              These options are ignored for compatibility with older versions of the dpkg build scripts but are  now
              deprecated.  Previously  they  were  used  to tell dpkg-gencontrol to include the Section and Priority
              fields in the control file. This is now the default behaviour. If you want to get  the  old  behaviour
              you can use the -U option to delete the fields from the control file.

       -Ppackage-build-dir
              Tells  dpkg-source  that  the package is being built in package-build-dir instead of debian/tmp.  This
              value is used to find the default value of the Installed-Size substitution variable and  control  file
              field (using du), and for the default location of the output file.

       -O[filename]
              Print   the   control   file   to   standard  output  (or  filename  if  specified),  rather  than  to
              debian/tmp/DEBIAN/control (or package-build-dir/DEBIAN/control if -P was used).

       -?, --help
              Show the usage message and exit.

       --version
              Show the version and exit.

FILES
       debian/control
              The main source control information file, giving  version-independent  information  about  the  source
              package and the binary packages it can produce.

       debian/files
              The  list  of  generated  files which are part of the upload being prepared.  dpkg-gencontrol adds the
              presumed filenames of binary packages whose control files it generates here.



Debian Project                                       2013-09-06                                   dpkg-gencontrol(1)
