dpkg-split(1)                                      dpkg utilities                                      dpkg-split(1)



NAME
       dpkg-split - Debian package archive split/join tool

SYNOPSIS
       dpkg-split [option...] command

DESCRIPTION
       dpkg-split  splits  Debian binary package files into smaller parts and reassembles them again, to support the
       storage of large package files on small media such as floppy disks.

       It can be operated manually using the --split, --join and --info options.

       It also has an automatic mode, invoked using the --auto option, where it maintains a queue of parts seen  but
       not  yet reassembled and reassembles a package file when it has seen all of its parts. The --listq and --dis‐
       card options allow the management of the queue.

       All splitting, joining and queueing operations produce informative messages on  standard  output;  these  may
       safely be ignored.

COMMANDS
       -s, --split complete-archive [prefix]
              Splits a single Debian binary package into several parts.

              The parts are named prefix.NofM.deb where N is the part number, starting at 1, and M is the total num‐
              ber of parts (both in decimal).

              If no prefix is supplied then the complete-archive filename is taken, including  directory,  with  any
              trailing .deb removed.

       -j, --join part...
              Joins  the  parts  of  a package file together, reassembling the original file as it was before it was
              split.

              The part files given as arguments must be all the parts of exactly the same original binary file. Each
              part must occur exactly once in the argument list, though the parts to not need to be listed in order.

              The  parts  must  of  course  all have been generated with the same part size specified at split time,
              which means that they must usually have been generated by the same invocation of dpkg-split --split.

              The parts' filenames are not significant for the reassembly process.

              By default the output file is called package_version_arch.deb.


       -I, --info part...
              Prints information, in a human-readable format, about the part file(s) specified. Arguments which  are
              not binary package parts produce a message saying so instead (but still on standard output).

       -a, --auto -o complete-output part
              Automatically queue parts and reassemble a package if possible.

              The  part  specified  is  examined,  and compared with other parts of the same package (if any) in the
              queue of packages file parts.

              If all parts of the package file of which part is a part are available then the package is reassembled
              and written to complete-output (which should not usually already exist, though this is not an error).

              If not then the part is copied into the queue and complete-output is not created.

              If  part  is  not  a  split binary package part then dpkg-split will exit with status 1; if some other
              trouble occurs then it will exit with status 2.

              The --output or -o option must be supplied when using --auto.  (If this were not mandatory the calling
              program would not know what output file to expect.)

       -l, --listq
              Lists the contents of the queue of packages to be reassembled.

              For  each  package  file of which parts are in the queue the output gives the name of the package, the
              parts in the queue, and the total number of bytes stored in the queue.

       -d, --discard [package...]
              This discards parts from the queue of those waiting for the remaining parts of their packages.

              If no package is specified then the queue is cleared completely; if any are specified then only  parts
              of the relevant package(s) are deleted.

       -?, --help
              Show the usage message and exit.

       --version
              Show the version and exit.

OPTIONS
       --depotdir directory
              Specifies  an  alternative directory for the queue of parts awaiting automatic reassembly. The default
              is /var/lib/dpkg.

       -S, --partsize kibibytes
              Specifies the maximum part size when splitting, in kibibytes (1024 bytes). The default is 450 KiB.

       -o, --output complete-output
              Specifies the output file name for a reassembly.

              This overrides the default for a manual reassembly (--join) and is mandatory for an  automatic  queue-
              or-reassemble (--auto).

       -Q, --npquiet
              When  doing  automatic  queue-or-reassembly  dpkg-split usually prints a message if it is given a part
              that is not a binary package part. This option suppresses this message, to allow programs such as dpkg
              to cope with both split and unsplit packages without producing spurious messages.

       --msdos
              Forces the output filenames generated by --split to be msdos-compatible.

              This mangles the prefix - either the default derived from the input filename or the one supplied as an
              argument: alphanumerics are lowercased, plus signs are replaced by x's and all  other  characters  are
              discarded.

              The  result  is  then  truncated as much as is necessary, and filenames of the form prefixNofM.deb are
              generated.

EXIT STATUS
       0      The requested split, merge, or other command succeeded.  --info commands count as successful  even  if
              the files are not binary package parts.

       1      Only occurs with --auto and indicates that the part file was not a binary package part.

       2      Some  kind  of trouble happened, such as a system call failure, a file that looked like a package part
              file but was corrupted, a usage error or some other problem.

FILES
       /var/lib/dpkg/parts
              The default queue directory for part files awaiting automatic reassembly.

              The filenames used in this directory are in a format internal to dpkg-split and  are  unlikely  to  be
              useful to other programs, and in any case the filename format should not be relied upon.

BUGS
       Full  details  of  the  packages  in the queue are impossible to get without digging into the queue directory
       yourself.

       There is no easy way to test whether a file that may be a binary package part is one.

SEE ALSO
       deb(5), deb-control(5), dpkg-deb(1), dpkg(1).



Debian Project                                       2011-07-04                                        dpkg-split(1)
