dpkg-scansources(1)                                dpkg utilities                                dpkg-scansources(1)



NAME
       dpkg-scansources - create Sources index files

SYNOPSIS
       dpkg-scansources [option...] binary-dir [override-file [path-prefix]] > Sources

DESCRIPTION
       dpkg-scansources  scans the given binary-dir for .dsc files.  These are used to create a Debian source index,
       which is output to stdout.

       The override-file, if given, is used to set priorities in the resulting index records  and  to  override  the
       maintainer  field  given in the .dsc files. The file can be compressed. See deb-override(5) for the format of
       this file. Note: Since the override file is indexed by binary, not source packages, there's a bit of a  prob‐
       lem  here. The current implementation uses the highest priority of all the binary packages produced by a .dsc
       file for the priority of the source package, and the override entry for the first binary  package  listed  in
       the .dsc file to modify maintainer information. This might change.

       The  path-prefix,  if given, is prepended to the directory field in the generated source index. You generally
       use this to make the directory fields contain the path from the top of the Debian archive hierarchy.

       Note: If you want to access the generated Sources file with apt(8) you will probably  need  to  compress  the
       file  with  gzip(1)  (generating  a  Sources.gz file). apt ignores uncompressed Sources files except on local
       access (i.e.  file:// sources).

OPTIONS
       -n, --no-sort
           Don't sort the index records. Normally they are sorted by source package name.


       -e, --extra-override file
           Scan file to find supplementary overrides (the file can be compressed). See  deb-extra-override(5)
           for more information on its format.

       -s, --source-override file
           Use file as the source override file (the file can be compressed).  The default is the name of the
           override file you specified with .src appended.

           The source override file is in a different format from the binary override file. It contains  only
           two  whitespace  separated fields, the first is the source package name and the second is the sec‐
           tion. Blank lines and comment lines are ignored in the normal manner. If a package appears in both
           files the source override takes precedence for setting the section.

       --debug
           Turn debugging on.

       --help
           Show the usage message and exit.

       --version
           Show the version and exit.

SEE ALSO
       deb-override(5), deb-extra-override(5), dpkg-scanpackages(1).



Debian Project                                       2011-08-14                                  dpkg-scansources(1)
