DUMPKEYS(1)                                    General Commands Manual                                   DUMPKEYS(1)



NAME
       dumpkeys - dump keyboard translation tables

SYNOPSIS
       dumpkeys  [  -hilfn -ccharset --help --short-info --long-info --numeric --full-table --funcs-only --keys-only
       --compose-only --charset=charset ]

DESCRIPTION
       dumpkeys writes, to the standard output, the current contents of the keyboard driver's translation tables, in
       the format specified by keymaps(5).

       Using  the  various  options,  the format of the output can be controlled and also other information from the
       kernel and the programs dumpkeys(1) and loadkeys(1) can be obtained.

OPTIONS
       -h --help
              Prints the program's version number and a short usage message to the program's standard  error  output
              and exits.

       -i --short-info
              Prints some characteristics of the kernel's keyboard driver. The items shown are:

              Keycode range supported by the kernel

                     This  tells what values can be used after the keycode keyword in keytable files. See keymaps(5)
                     for more information and the syntax of these files.

              Number of actions bindable to a key

                     This tells how many different actions a single key can output using various modifier  keys.  If
                     the  value  is 16 for example, you can define up to 16 different actions to a key combined with
                     modifiers. When the value is 16, the kernel probably knows about four modifier keys, which  you
                     can press in different combinations with the key to access all the bound actions.

              Ranges of action codes supported by the kernel

                     This  item contains a list of action code ranges in hexadecimal notation.  These are the values
                     that can be used in the right hand side of a key definition, ie. the vv's in a line

                            keycode xx = vv vv vv vv

                     (see keymaps(5) for more information about the format of key  definition  lines).   dumpkeys(1)
                     and  loadkeys(1)  support  a  symbolic notation, which is preferable to the numeric one, as the
                     action codes may vary from kernel to kernel while the symbolic names usually remain  the  same.
                     However,  the  list of action code ranges can be used to determine, if the kernel actually sup‐
                     ports all the symbols loadkeys(1) knows, or are there maybe some actions supported by the  ker‐
                     nel  that have no symbolic name in your loadkeys(1) program. To see this, you compare the range
                     list with the action symbol list, see option --long-info below.

              Number of function keys supported by kernel

                     This tells the number of action codes that can be used to output strings of  characters.  These
                     action  codes  are traditionally bound to the various function and editing keys of the keyboard
                     and are defined to send standard escape sequences. However, you can redefine these to send com‐
                     mon command lines, email addresses or whatever you like.  Especially if the number of this item
                     is greater than the number of function and editing keys in your keyboard,  you  may  have  some
                     "spare"  action codes that you can bind to AltGr-letter combinations, for example, to send some
                     useful strings. See loadkeys(1) for more details.

              Function strings

                     You can see you current function key definitions with the command

                            dumpkeys --funcs-only

       -l --long-info
              This option instructs dumpkeys to print a long information listing. The output is the same as with the
              --short-info  appended with the list of action symbols supported by loadkeys(1) and dumpkeys(1), along
              with the symbols' numeric values.

       -n --numeric
              This option causes dumpkeys to by-pass the conversion of action code values to symbolic  notation  and
              to print the in hexadecimal format instead.

       -f --full-table
              This makes dumpkeys skip all the short-hand heuristics (see keymaps(5)) and output the key bindings in
              the canonical form. First a keymaps line describing the currently  defined  modifier  combinations  is
              printed.  Then for each key a row with a column for each modifier combination is printed. For example,
              if the current keymap in use uses seven modifiers, every row will have seven action code columns. This
              format can be useful for example to programs that post-process the output of dumpkeys.

       --funcs-only
              When this option is given, dumpkeys prints only the function key string definitions. Normally dumpkeys
              prints both the key bindings and the string definitions.

       --keys-only
              When this option is given, dumpkeys prints only the key bindings. Normally dumpkeys  prints  both  the
              key bindings and the string definitions.

       --compose-only
              When  this  option is given, dumpkeys prints only the compose key combinations.  This option is avail‐
              able only if your kernel has compose key support.

       -ccharset  --charset=charset
              This instructs dumpkeys to interpret character code values according to the specified  character  set.
              This affects only the translation of character code values to symbolic names. Valid values for charset
              currently are iso-8859-X, Where X is a digit in 1-9.  If no charset is specified, iso-8859-1  is  used
              as  a  default.   This  option produces an output line `charset "iso-8859-X"', telling loadkeys how to
              interpret the keymap. (For example, "division" is 0xf7 in iso-8859-1 but 0xba in iso-8859-8.)

FILES
       /usr/share/keymaps  recommended directory for keytable files

SEE ALSO
       loadkeys(1), keymaps(5)




                                                     1 Sep 1993                                          DUMPKEYS(1)
