DVI2TTY(1)                                     General Commands Manual                                    DVI2TTY(1)



NAME
       dvi2tty - preview a TeX DVI-file on an ordinary ascii terminal

SYNOPSIS
       dvi2tty [ options ] dvi-file

DESCRIPTION
       dvi2tty  converts a TeX DVI-file to a format that is appropriate for terminals and line printers. The program
       is intended to be used for preliminary proofreading of TeX-ed documents.  By default the output  is  directed
       to  the  terminal,  possibly  through  a  pager  (depending  on how the program was installed), but it can be
       directed to a file or a pipe.

       The output leaves much to be desired, but is still useful if you want to avoid walking to the  laser  printer
       (or whatever) for each iteration of your document.
       Since  dvi2tty  produces  output for terminals and line printers the representation of documents is naturally
       quite primitive.  In principle Font Changes are totally ignored, but dvi2tty recognizes  a  few  mathematical
       and special symbols that can be be displayed on an ordinary ascii terminal, such as the '+' and '-' symbol.

       If the width of the output text requires more columns than fits in one line (c.f. the -w option) it is broken
       into several lines by dvi2tty although they will be printed as one line on regular TeX output  devices  (e.g.
       laser  printers).  To show that a broken line is really just one logical line an asterisk (``*'') in the last
       position means that the logical line is continued on the next physical line output by dvi2tty.  Such  a  con‐
       tinuation line is started with a a space and an asterisk in the first two columns.

       Options  may  be  specified in the environment variable DVI2TTY.  Any option on the command line, conflicting
       with one in the environment, will override the one from the environment.

       Options:

       -o file
              Write output to file ``file''.

       -p list
              Print the pages chosen by list.  Numbers refer to TeX-page numbers (known as \count0).  An example  of
              format  for  list  is  ``1,3:6,8'' to choose pages 1, 3 through 6 and 8.  Negative numbers can be used
              exactly as in TeX, e g -1 comes before -4 as in ``-p-1:-4,17''.

       -P list
              Like -p except that page numbers refer to the sequential ordering of the pages in the dvi-file.  Nega‐
              tive numbers don't make a lot of sense here...

       -w n   Specify  terminal  width  n.   Legal range 16-132.  Default is 80. If your terminal has the ability to
              display in 132 columns it might be a good idea to use -w132 and toggle the terminal into this mode  as
              output will probably look somewhat better.

       -v     Specify height of lines. Default value 450000. Allows to adjust linespacing.

       -q     Don't  pipe  the  output  through  a pager.  This may be the default on some systems (depending on the
              whims of the person installing the program).

       -e n   This option can be used to influence the spacing between words.  With a negative value the  number  of
              spaces between words becomes less, with a positive value it becomes more.  -e-11 seems to worked well.

       -f     Pipe  through  a pager, $PAGER if defined, or whatever the installer of the program compiled in (often
              ``more''). This may be the default, but it is still okay to redirect output with ``>'', the pager will
              not be used if output is not going to a terminal.

       -F     Specify the pager program to be used.  This overrides the $PAGER and the default pager.

       -Fprog Use  ``prog''  as  program  to  pipe  output  into.  Can  be  used  to  choose an alternate pager (e g
              ``-Fless'').

       -t     \tt fonts were used (instead of cm) to produce dvi file. (screen.sty is a powerfull mean  to  do  that
              with LaTeX).

       -a     Dvi2tty normally tries to output accented characters. With the -a option, accented characters are out‐
              put without the accent sign.

       -l     Mark page breaks with the two-character sequence ``^L''. The default is to mark them with a  form-feed
              character.

       -c     Do  not attempt to translate any characters (like the Scandinavion/latin1 mode) except when running in
              tt-font.

       -u     Toggle option to process certain latin1 characters. Use this if your output  devices  supports  latin1
              cahracters.  Note this may interfere with -s. Best not to use -u and -s together.

       -s     Toggle  option  to  process the special Scandinavian characters that on most (?)  terminals in Scandi‐
              navia are mapped to ``{|}[\]''.  Note this may interfere with -u. Best not to use -u and -s together.

       -J     Auto detect NTT JTeX, ASCII pTeX, and upTeX dvi format.

       -N     Display NTT JTeX dvi.

       -A     Display ASCII pTeX dvi.

       -U     Display upTeX dvi.

       -Eenc  Set output Japanese encoding. The enc argument 'e', 's',  'j',  and  'u'  denotes  EUC-JP,  Shift_JIS,
              ISO-2022-JP, and UTF-8, respectively.

       -bdelim
              Print  the  name  of fonts when switching to it (and ending it). The delim argument is used to delimit
              the fontname.

FILES
       /bin/more      probably the default pager.

ENVIRONMENT
       PAGER              the pager to use.
       DVI2TTY             can be set to hold command-line options.

SEE ALSO
       TeX, dvi2ps

AUTHOR
       Original Pascal verion: Svante Lindahl, Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm
       Improved C version: Marcel Mol
       marcel@mesa.nl, MESA Consulting

BUGS
       Blanks between words get lost quite easy. This is less likely if you  are  using  a  wider  output  than  the
       default 80.

       Only one file may be specified on the command line.




                                                  13 November 1990                                        DVI2TTY(1)
