DVIPDFM(1)                                            DVIPDFMx                                            DVIPDFM(1)



NAME
       dvipdfm - produce PDF files directly from DVI files


SYNOPSIS
       dvipdfm [options] file[.dvi]


DESCRIPTION
       In  TeX  Live,  dvipdfm  is another incarnation of dvipdfmx rather than a separate program.  Compatibility is
       attempted as best as possible.  (The change was made due to  duplicated  security  and  configuration  issues
       arising  repeatedly.)   Please report problems with this dvipdfm to the dvipdfmx maintainers at dvipdfmx (at)
       ktug.or.kr.

       The program dvipdfm generates a PDF file from a DVI file.  DVI files are the output format produced  by  TeX.
       Output from groff can be converted to DVI format using grodvi.

       The  program dvipdfm recognizes several commonly used \special commands, which are extensions to the DVI for‐
       mat.  Specifically, it understands color specials, papersize specials, tpic specials (which allow  it  to  be
       used with pic), hypertex specials, and some PostScript specials.  These extensions allow documents to contain
       color, figures, and hyperlinks.  The program tries to mimic the behavior of dvips so that many macro packages
       produced  for  use with dvips will work with dvipdfm.  Dvipdfm understands its own specific \special commands
       to allow access to PDF features such as annotations and bookmarks.

       For issues related to bounding boxes (and hence image sizes), please see extractbb(1).


OPTIONS
       -c   Ignore color \specials.  The -c toggles a flag that disables color \special processing.  Unless  changed
            in  the  configuration  file,  that  flag  is off, and color \specials are interpreted normally.  The -c
            option may be used to produce a black and white document from a document containing color  TeX  \special
            commands.


       -d   Remove thumbnail images after including them.  (See the -t option for more information.)


       -e   Toggle  partial  font embedding flag.  If partial font embedding is off, embedded fonts are fully embed‐
            ded.  The default, if not changed in the configuration file, is to embed only those glyphs actually used
            in the document.


       -f map_file
            Set  the  name  of  the font map file to map_file.  The format of the font map file is documented in the
            Dvipdfm User's Manual.


       -l   Select landscape mode.  In other words, exchange the x and y dimensions of the paper.


       -m  mag
            Magnify the input document by mag.


       -o  name
            Generate PDF output file having the name name.  By default, the name of the output file is file.pdf.


       -p  paper
            Select the papersize by name (e.g., letter, legal, ledger, tabloid, a3, a4, or a5 )


       -r  size
            Set resolution of bitmapped fonts to size dots per inch.  Bitmapped fonts are generated by the  Kpathsea
            library, which uses Metafont.  Bitmapped fonts are included as type 3 fonts in the PDF output file.


       -s  page_specifications
            Select the pages of the DVI file to be converted.  The page_specifications consists of a comma separated
            list of page_ranges:

            page_specifications := page_specification[,page_specifications]

            where

            page_specification := single_page|page_range

            page_range := [first_page]-[last_page]

            An empty first_page is implied to be the first page of the DVI file.  An empty last_page is  treated  as
            the last page of the DVI file.

            Examples:

            -s 1,3,5
                 includes pages 1, 3, and 5;

            -s - includes all pages;

            -s -,-
                 includes two copies of all pages in the DVI file; and

            -s 1-10
                 includes the first ten pages of the DVI file.

       -t   Search for thumbnail images of each page in the directory named by the TMPDIR environment variable.  The
            thumbnail images must be named in a specific format.  They must have the same base name as the DVI  file
            and  they  must  have  the page number as the extension to the file name.  Dvipdfm does not generate the
            thumbnails itself, but it is distributed with a wrapper program named dvipdft that does so.


       -v   Increase verbosity.  Results of the -v option are cumulative (e.g., -vv ) increases the verbosity by two
            increments.


       -x x_offset
            Set  the  left margin to x_offset.  The default left margin is 1.0in.  The dimension may be specified in
            any units understood by TeX (e.g., bpt, pt, in, cm )


       -y y_offset
            Set the top margin to y_offset.  The default top margin is 1.0in.  The dimension may be specified in any
            units understood by TeX (e.g., bpt, pt, in, cm )


       -z compression_level
            Set  the compression level to compression_level.  Compressions levels range from 0 (no compression) to 9
            (maximum compression) and correspond to the values understood by zlib.


IMAGE BOUNDING BOXES
       When including images with dvipdfm, their bounding boxes should be generated by running ebb, or extractbb -m.
       The result will be in an .bb file.

       When  including  images  with  dvipdfmx,  their bounding boxes should be generated by running extractbb.  The
       result will be in an .xbb file; the xbb information is the same as for the PDF format.


ENVIRONMENT
       Dvipdfm uses the kpathsea library for locating the files that it opens.   Hence,  the  environment  variables
       documented in the Kpathsea library documentation influence dvipdfm.

       Dvipdfm also reads the following environment variables:


       TMP  The directory to search for thumbnail images of each page.


FILES
       The  precise  location of the following files is determined by the Kpathsea library configuration.  The loca‐
       tion may be determined by using kpsewhich, e.g.,
       kpsewhich -progname=dvipdfm -format='other text files' config


       config
            Startup options


       t1fonts.map
            The default font map file (this name may be changed in the config file).


       *.tfm
            TeX font metrics


       *.vf TeX virtual font files


       *.pfb
            PostScript Type 1 font files


       texmf.cnf
            The Kpathsea library configuration file.  The location of this file may be found by typing
            kpsewhich texmf.cnf



SEE ALSO
       dvipdft(1), tex(1), dvips(1), groff(1), grodvi(1), pic(1), extractbb(1), and the Kpathsea library info  docu‐
       mentation.


AUTHOR
       Mark  A.  Wicks.  But for the version in TeX Live, all bugs and other reports should go to the dvipdfmx main‐
       tainers at dvipdfmx (at) ktug.or.kr.



20120420                                            28 April 2011                                         DVIPDFM(1)
