DVIPS(1)                                       General Commands Manual                                      DVIPS(1)



NAME
       dvips - convert a TeX DVI file to PostScript

SYNOPSIS
       dvips [OPTIONS] file[.dvi]

DESCRIPTION
       THIS  MAN  PAGE IS OBSOLETE!  See the Texinfo documentation instead.  You can read it either in Emacs or with
       the standalone info program which comes with the GNU texinfo distribution as ftp.gnu.org:pub/gnu/texinfo/tex‐
       info*.tar.gz.

       The  program  dvips  takes a DVI file file[.dvi] produced by TeX (or by some other processor such as GFtoDVI)
       and converts it to PostScript, sending the output to a file or directly to a printer.  The DVI  file  may  be
       specified without the .dvi extension.  Fonts used may either be resident in the printer or defined as bitmaps
       in PK files, or a `virtual' combination of both.  If the mktexpk program is installed, dvips  will  automati‐
       cally invoke METAFONT to generate fonts that don't already exist.

       For  more information, see the Texinfo manual dvips.texi, which should be installed somewhere on your system,
       hopefully accessible through the standard Info tree.

OPTIONS
       -a     Conserve memory by making three passes over the .dvi file instead of two and only loading those  char‐
              acters  actually  used.   Generally only useful on machines with a very limited amount of memory, like
              some PCs.

       -A     Print only odd pages (TeX pages, not sequence pages).

       -b num Generate num copies of each page, but duplicating the page  body  rather  than  using  the  #numcopies
              option.   This  can  be useful in conjunction with a header file setting \bop-hook to do color separa‐
              tions or other neat tricks.

       -B     Print only even pages (TeX pages, not sequence pages).

       -c num Generate num copies of every page.  Default is 1.  (For collated copies, see the -C option below.)

       -C num Create num copies, but collated (by replicating the data in the PostScript file).  Slower than the  -c
              option, but easier on the hands, and faster than resubmitting the same PostScript file multiple times.

       -d num Set  the  debug flags.  This is intended only for emergencies or for unusual fact-finding expeditions;
              it will work only if dvips has been compiled with the DEBUG option.   If  nonzero,  prints  additional
              information on standard error.  For maximum information, you can use `-1'.  See the Dvips Texinfo man‐
              ual for more details.

       -D num Set the resolution in dpi (dots per inch) to num.  This affects the choice of bitmap  fonts  that  are
              loaded and also the positioning of letters in resident PostScript fonts. Must be between 10 and 10000.
              This affects both the horizontal and vertical resolution.  If a  high  resolution  (something  greater
              than 400 dpi, say) is selected, the -Z flag should probably also be used.

       -e num Make  sure  that each character is placed at most this many pixels from its `true' resolution-indepen‐
              dent position on the page. The default value of this  parameter  is  resolution  dependent.   Allowing
              individual characters to `drift' from their correctly rounded positions by a few pixels, while regain‐
              ing the true position at the beginning of each new word, improves the spacing of letters in words.

       -E     makes dvips attempt to generate an EPSF file with a tight bounding box.  This only works  on  one-page
              files,  and  it  only  looks  at marks made by characters and rules, not by any included graphics.  In
              addition, it gets the glyph metrics from the tfm file, so characters that lie outside their  enclosing
              tfm box may confuse it.  In addition, the bounding box might be a bit too loose if the character glyph
              has significant left or right side bearings.  Nonetheless, this option works well for  creating  small
              EPSF  files  for  equations  or tables or the like.  (Note, of course, that dvips output is resolution
              dependent and thus does not make very good EPSF files, especially if the images are to be scaled;  use
              these EPSF files with a great deal of care.)

       -f     Run  as a filter.  Read the .dvi file from standard input and write the PostScript to standard output.
              The standard input must be seekable, so it cannot be a pipe.  If you must use a pipe,  write  a  shell
              script  that  copies  the  pipe  output  to a temporary file and then points dvips at this file.  This
              option also disables the automatic reading of the PRINTER environment  variable,  and  turns  off  the
              automatic  sending  of  control D if it was turned on with the -F option or in the configuration file;
              use -F after this option if you want both.

       -F     Causes Control-D (ASCII code 4) to be appended as the very last  character  of  the  PostScript  file.
              This  is useful when dvips is driving the printer directly instead of working through a spooler, as is
              common on extremely small systems.  NOTE! DO NOT USE THIS OPTION!

       -G     Causes dvips to shift non-printing characters to higher-numbered positions.  This may be useful  some‐
              times.

       -h name
              Prepend  file  name  as  an  additional  header file. (However, if the name is simply `-' suppress all
              header files from the output.)  This header file gets added to the PostScript userdict.

       -i     Make each section be a separate file.  Under certain circumstances, dvips will split the  document  up
              into `sections' to be processed independently; this is most often done for memory reasons.  Using this
              option tells dvips to place each section into a separate file; the new file names are created  replac‐
              ing the suffix of the supplied output file name by a three-digit sequence number.  This option is most
              often used in conjunction with the -S option which sets the maximum  section  length  in  pages.   For
              instance,  some phototypesetters cannot print more than ten or so consecutive pages before running out
              of steam; these options can be used to automatically split a book into ten-page sections, each to  its
              own file.

       -j     Download  only  needed characters from Type 1 fonts. This is the default in the current release.  Some
              debugging flags trace this operation.  You can also control partial downloading on a  per-font  basis,
              via the psfonts.map file.

       -k     Print  crop  marks.   This  option  increases the paper size (which should be specified, either with a
              paper size special or with the -T option) by a half inch in each dimension.  It translates  each  page
              by a quarter inch and draws cross-style crop marks.  It is mostly useful with typesetters that can set
              the page size automatically.

       -K     This option causes comments in included PostScript graphics, font files, and headers  to  be  removed.
              This  is  sometimes  necessary  to get around bugs in spoolers or PostScript post-processing programs.
              Specifically, the %%Page comments, when left in, often cause difficulties.  Use of this flag can cause
              some  included  graphics  to fail, since the PostScript header macros from some software packages read
              portions of the input stream line by line, searching for a particular comment.  This option  has  been
              turned off by default because PostScript previewers and spoolers have been getting better.

       -l num The last page printed will be the first one numbered num Default is the last page in the document.  If
              the num is prefixed by an equals sign, then it (and any argument to the -p option)  is  treated  as  a
              sequence  number, rather than a value to compare with \count0 values.  Thus, using -l =9 will end with
              the ninth page of the document, no matter what the pages are actually numbered.

       -m     Specify manual feed for printer.

       -mode mode
              Use mode as the Metafont device name for path searching and font generation.  This overrides any value
              from  configuration files.  With the default paths, explicitly specifying the mode also makes the pro‐
              gram assume the fonts are in a subdirectory named mode.

       -M     Turns off the automatic font generation facility.  If any fonts are missing, commands to generate  the
              fonts  are  appended to the file missfont.log in the current directory; this file can then be executed
              and deleted to create the missing fonts.

       -n num At most num pages will be printed. Default is 100000.

       -N     Turns off structured comments; this might be necessary on some systems that  try  to  interpret  Post‐
              Script comments in weird ways, or on some PostScript printers.  Old versions of TranScript in particu‐
              lar cannot handle modern Encapsulated PostScript.

       -noomega
              This will disable the use of Omega extensions when interpreting DVI files.  By default, the additional
              opcodes 129 and 134 are recognized by dvips as Omega or pTeX extensions and interpreted as requests to
              set 2-byte characters.

       -noptex
              This will disable the use of pTeX extensions when interpreting DVI files.  By default, the  additional
              opcodes  130  and  135  are  recognized by dvips as pTeX extensions and interpreted as requests to set
              3-byte characters, and 255 as request to change the typesetting direction.

              The only drawback is that the virtual font array will (at least temporarily)  require  65536  or  more
              positions  instead  of the default 256 positions, i.e., the memory requirements of dvips will be some‐
              what larger.  If you find this unacceptable or encounter another problem with the Omega or pTeX exten‐
              sions,  you  can switch off the pTeX extension by using -noptex, or both by using -noomega (but please
              do send a bug report if you find such problems - see the bug address in the AUTHORS section below).

       -o name
              The output will be sent to file name If no file name is given (i.e., -o is last on the command  line),
              the  default  name is file.ps where the .dvi file was called file.dvi; if this option isn't given, any
              default in the configuration file is used.  If the first character of the supplied output file name is
              an exclamation mark, then the remainder will be used as an argument to popen; thus, specifying !lpr as
              the output file will automatically queue the file for printing.  This option also disables  the  auto‐
              matic reading of the PRINTER environment variable, and turns off the automatic sending of control D if
              it was turned on with the -F option or in the configuration file; use -F after this option if you want
              both.

       -O offset
              Move  the  origin  by  a  certain amount.  The offset is a comma-separated pair of dimensions, such as
              .1in,-.3cm (in the same syntax used in the papersize special).  The origin of the page is shifted from
              the default position (of one inch down, one inch to the right from the upper left corner of the paper)
              by this amount.

       -p num The first page printed will be the first one numbered num.  Default is the first page in the document.
              If  the num is prefixed by an equals sign, then it (and any argument to the -l option) is treated as a
              sequence number, rather than a value to compare with \count0 values.  Thus, using  -p  =3  will  start
              with the third page of the document, no matter what the pages are actually numbered.

       -pp pagelist
              A  comma-separated  list  of pages and ranges (a-b) may be given, which will be interpreted as \count0
              values.  Pages not specified will not be printed.  Multiple -pp options may be specified or all  pages
              and page ranges can be specified with one -pp option.

       -P printername
              Sets  up the output for the appropriate printer.  This is implemented by reading in config.printername
              , which can then set the output pipe (as in, !lpr -Pprintername as well as  the  font  paths  and  any
              other config.ps defaults for that printer only.  Note that config.ps is read before config.printername
              In addition, another file called ~/.dvipsrc is searched for immediately after config.ps; this file  is
              intended  for  user defaults.  If no -P command is given, the environment variable PRINTER is checked.
              If that variable exists, and a corresponding configuration file exists,  that  configuration  file  is
              read in.

       -q     Run  in  quiet mode.  Don't chatter about pages converted, etc.; report nothing but errors to standard
              error.

       -r     Stack pages in reverse order.  Normally, page 1 will be printed first.

       -R[0|1|2]
              Run securely.  -R2 disables both shell command execution in \special'{} (via backticks ` ) and  config
              files  (via  the  E  option), and opening of any absolute filenames.  -R1 , the default, forbids shell
              escapes but allows absolute filenames.  -R0 allows both.  The config file option is z

       -s     Causes the entire global output to be enclosed in a save/restore pair.  This causes the file to not be
              truly  conformant,  and is thus not recommended, but is useful if you are driving the printer directly
              and don't care too much about the portability of the output.

       -S num Set the maximum number of pages in each `section'.  This option is most  commonly  used  with  the  -i
              option; see that documentation above for more information.

       -t papertype
              This  sets  the  paper type to papertype.  The papertype should be defined in one of the configuration
              files, along with the appropriate code to select it.  (Currently known types  include  letter,  legal,
              ledger,  a4,  a3).   You  can  also  specify -t landscape, which rotates a document by 90 degrees.  To
              rotate a document whose size is not letter, you can use the -t option twice, once for the  page  size,
              and  once for landscape.  You should not use any -t option when the DVI file already contains a paper‐
              size special, as is done by some LaTeX packages, notably hyperref.sty.

              The upper left corner of each page in the .dvi file is placed one inch from the left and one inch from
              the  top.   Use of this option is highly dependent on the configuration file.  Note that executing the
              letter or a4 or other PostScript operators cause the document to be nonconforming and can cause it not
              to  print  on certain printers, so the paper size should not execute such an operator if at all possi‐
              ble.

       -T papersize
              Set the paper size to the given pair of dimensions.  This option takes its arguments in the same style
              as -O.  It overrides any paper size special in the dvi file.

       -u psmapfile
              Set  psmapfile  to  be  the file that dvips uses for looking up PostScript font aliases.  If psmapfile
              begins with a + character, then the rest of the name is used as the name of the map file, and the  map
              file  is appended to the list of map files (instead of replacing the list).  In either case, if psmap‐
              file has no extension, then .map is added at the end.

       -U     Disable a PostScript virtual memory saving optimization that stores the character  metric  information
              in  the same string that is used to store the bitmap information.  This is only necessary when driving
              the Xerox 4045 PostScript interpreter.  It is caused by a bug in  that  interpreter  that  results  in
              `garbage' on the bottom of each character.  Not recommended unless you must drive this printer.

       -v     Print the dvips version number and exit.

       -V     Download non-resident PostScript fonts as bitmaps.  This requires use of `gsftopk' or `pstopk' or some
              other such program(s) in order to generate the required bitmap fonts; these programs are supplied with
              dvips.

       -x num Set  the  magnification  ratio  to  num/1000.  Overrides the magnification specified in the .dvi file.
              Must be between 10 and 100000.  Instead of an integer, num may be a real number for  increased  preci‐
              sion.

       -X num Set the horizontal resolution in dots per inch to num.

       -y num Set  the  magnification  ratio to num/1000 times the magnification specified in the .dvi file.  See -x
              above.

       -Y num Set the vertical resolution in dots per inch to num.

       -z     Pass html hyperdvi specials through to the output for eventual distillation into  PDF.   This  is  not
              enabled  by  default  to avoid including the header files unnecessarily, and use of temporary files in
              creating the output.

       -Z     Causes bitmapped fonts to be compressed before they are downloaded, thereby reducing the size  of  the
              PostScript  font-downloading  information.   Especially  useful at high resolutions or when very large
              fonts are used.  Will slow down printing somewhat, especially on early 68000-based  PostScript  print‐
              ers.

SEE ALSO
       mf(1), afm2tfm(1), tex(1), latex(1), lpr(1), dvips.texi, http://tug.org/dvips.

ENVIRONMENT
       Dvipsk  uses  the same environment variables and algorithms for finding font files as TeX and its friends do.
       See the documentation for the Kpathsea library for details.  (Repeating it here is too cumbersome.)

       KPATHSEA_DEBUG: Trace Kpathsea lookups; set to -1 for complete tracing.

       PRINTER: see above.

NOTES
       PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated.

AUTHOR
       Tomas Rokicki <rokicki@cs.stanford.edu>; extended to virtual fonts by Don Knuth.  Path searching and configu‐
       ration modifications by Karl Berry.



                                                     4 May 2010                                             DVIPS(1)
