DVISVGM(1)                                         dvisvgm Manual                                         DVISVGM(1)



NAME
       dvisvgm - converts DVI files to the XML-based SVG format

SYNOPSIS
       dvisvgm [ options ] file [.dvi]

       dvisvgm -E [ options ] file [.eps]

DESCRIPTION
       The command-line utility dvisvgm converts DVI files, as generated by TeX/LaTeX, to the XML-based scalable
       vector graphics format SVG. Since the current SVG standard 1.1 doesn’t specify multi-page graphics, dvisvgm
       creates separate SVG files for each DVI page. Because of compatibility reasons, only the first page is
       converted by default. In order to select a different page or arbitrary page sequences, use option -p which is
       described below.

       dvisvgm should properly convert all pages that are made up of fonts and rules only. However, the utility also
       supports a couple of DVI extensions defined in terms of DVI specials. For a more detailed overview, see
       section support of specials below.

       As SVG is a vector based graphics format, dvisvgm tries to convert the glyph outlines of all used fonts into
       scalable path descriptions. The fastest way to do that is to extract the path information from PFB
       (PostScript Type 1) files. So, if dvisvgm is able to find a PFB file for a required font, it will read the
       necessary information from this file.

       TeX’s main source for font descriptions is Metafont though, which produces bitmap output. That’s why not all
       obtainable TeX fonts are available in PFB format. In these cases, dvisvgm tries to vectorize Metafont’s
       output (GF fonts) by tracing the glyph bitmaps. The results are not as perfect as most (manually optimized)
       PFB outlines but are nonetheless really nice in most cases.

OPTIONS
       -a, --trace-all=[retrace]
           This option forces dvisvgm to trace not only the actually needed glyphs but all glyphs of all bitmap
           fonts used in the DVI file. Since the tracing results are stored in the font cache, all following DVI
           conversions (without option --trace-all) where these fonts are involved, will be much faster. By default,
           dvisvgm traces only the actually needed glyphs, and adds them to the cache. The boolean option retrace
           determines how to handle glyphs already stored in the cache. By default, these glyphs are skipped.
           Setting argument retrace to yes or true forces dvisvgm to trace the corresponding bitmaps again.

               Note
               This option only takes affect if font caching is active. Thus, --trace-all cannot be combined with
               option --cache=none.

       -b, --bbox=fmt
           Sets the bounding box of the generated graphic to the specified format. The parameter fmt takes either
           one of the format specifiers listed below, or a sequence of four comma- or whitespace-separated length
           values x1, y1, x2 and y2. The latter define two diagonal corners of the bounding box. Each length value
           consists of a floating point number and an optional length unit (pt, bp, cm, mm, in, or pc). If the unit
           is omitted, TeX points (pt) are assumed.

           It’s also possible to give only one length value l. In this case, the minimal bounding box is computed
           and enlarged by adding (-l,-l) to the upper left and (l,l) to the lower right corner.

           Alternatively, the following format specifiers are supported:

           International DIN/ISO paper sizes
               An, Bn, Cn, Dn, where n is a non-negative integer, e.g. A4 or a4 for DIN/ISO A4 format (210mm ×
               297mm).

           North American paper sizes
               invoice, executive, legal, letter, ledger

           Special bounding box sizes

               dvi    page size stored in the DVI file
               min    computes the minimal/tightest bounding
                      box
               none   no bounding box is assigned


       Page orientation
           The default page orientation for DIN/ISO and American paper sizes is portrait, i.e.  width < height.
           Appending -landscape or simply -l to the format string switches to landscape mode (width > height). For
           symmetry reasons you can also explicitly add -portrait or -p to indicate the default portrait format.
           Note that these suffixes are part of the size string and not separate options. Thus, they must directly
           follow the size specifier without additional blanks. Furthermore, the orientation suffixes can’t be used
           with dvi, min, and none.

               Note
               Option -b, --bbox only affects the bounding box and does not transform the page content. Hence, if
               you choose a landscape format, the page won’t be rotated.

       -C, --cache[=dir]
           To speed up the conversion process of bitmap fonts, dvisvgm saves intermediate conversion information in
           cache files. By default, these files are stored in $HOME/.dvisvgm/cache. If you prefer a different
           location, use option --cache to overwrite the default. Furthermore, it is also possible to disable the
           font caching mechanism completely with option --cache=none. If argument dir is omitted, dvisvgm prints
           the path of the default cache directory and some information about the stored fonts. Additionally,
           outdated and corrupted cache files are removed.

       --color
           Enables colorization of messages printed during the conversion process. The colors can be customized via
           the environment variable DVISVGM_COLORS. See the ENVIRONMENT section below for further information.

       -E, --eps
           If this option is given, dvisvgm does not expect a DVI but an EPS input file, and tries to convert it to
           SVG. In order to do so, a single psfile special command is created and forwarded to the PostScript
           special handler. This option is only available if dvisvgm was built with PostScript support enabled, and
           requires Ghostscript to be available. See option --libgs for further information.

       -e, --exact
           If this option is given, dvisvgm computes the precise bounding box of each character. By default, the
           values stored in a font’s TFM file are used to determine a glyph’s extent. As these values are intended
           to realize optimal character placements and are not designed to represent the exact dimensions, they
           don’t necessarily correspond with the bounds of the visual glyphs. Thus, width and/or height of some
           glyphs may be larger than the respective TFM values. As a result, this can lead to clipped characters at
           the bounds of the SVG graphic. With option --exact, dvisvgm analyzes the actual shape of each character
           and derives a usually tight bounding box.

       -m, --fontmap=filenames
           Loads and evaluates a single or multiple font map files. These files are required to resolve font file
           names and encodings. dvisvgm does not provide its own map file but tries to read available ones coming
           with dvips or dvipdfm. If option --fonrmapm is not given, dvisvgm looks for the default map files
           ps2pk.map, dvipdfm.map, and psfonts.map (in this order). Otherwise, the listed files are used. Multiple
           filenames must be separated by commas without leading and/or trailing whitespace. The map files are
           evaluated in the given order. By default, redefined mappings do not replace previous ones. However, each
           filename can be preceded by an optional mode specifier (+, -, or =) to change this behavior:

           +mapfile
               Only those entries in the given map file that don’t redefine a font mapping are applied. That’s also
               the default mode if no mode specifier is given.

           -mapfile
               Ensures that none of the font mappings defined in the given map file are used, i.e. previously
               defined mappings for the specified fonts are removed.

           =mapfile
               All mappings defined in the map file are applied. Previously defined settings for the same font are
               replaced.

               If the first filename in the filename sequence is preceded by a mode specifier, dvisvgm loads the
               default font map (see above) and applies the other map files afterwards. Otherwise, none of default
               map files will be loaded automatically.

               Examples: --fontmap=myfile1.map,+myfile2.map loads myfile1.map followed by myfile2.map where all
               redefinitions of myfile2.map are ignored.  --fontmap==myfile1.map,-myfile2.map loads the default map
               file followed by myfile1.map and myfile2.map where all redefinitions of myfile1.map replace previous
               entries. Afterwards, all definitions for the fonts given in myfile2.map are removed again.

               For further information about the map file formats, see the manuals of dvips and dvipdfm.

       -h, --help[=mode]
           Prints a short summary of all available command-line options. The optional mode parameter is an integer
           value between 0 and 2. It selects the display variant of the help text. Mode 0 lists all options divided
           into categories with section headers. This is also the default if dvisvgm is called without parameters.
           Mode 1 lists all options ordered by the short option name, while mode 2 sorts the lines by the long
           option name.

       --keep
           Disables the removal of temporary files as created by Metafont (usually .gf, .tfm, and .log files).

       --libgs=filename
           This option is only available if the Ghostscript library is not directly linked to dvisvgm and if
           PostScript support was not completely disabled during compilation. In this case, dvisvgm tries to load
           the shared GS library dynamically during runtime. By default, it expects the library’s name to be
           libgs.so (on Unix-like systems) or gsdll32.dll/gsdll64.dll (Windows). Option --libgs can be used to give
           a different name. Alternatively, it’s also possible to set the GS library name by the environment
           variable LIBGS. The latter has less precedence than the command-line option.

       -l, --list-specials
           Prints a list of registered special handlers and exits. Each handler processes a set of special
           statements belonging to the same category. In most cases, the categories are identified by the prefix of
           the special statements. It’s usually a leading word separated from the rest of the statement by a colon
           or a blank, e.g.  color or ps.

       -M, --mag=factor
           Sets the magnification factor applied in conjunction with Metafont calls prior tracing the glyphs. The
           larger this value, the better the tracing results. Nevertheless, large magnification values can cause
           Metafont arithmetic errors due to number overflows. So, use this option with care. The default setting
           usually produces nice results.

       --no-mktexmf
           Suppresses the generation of missing font files. If dvisvgm can’t find a font file through the kpathsea
           lookup mechanism, it calls the external tools mktextfm or mktexmf by. This option disables these calls.

       -n, --no-fonts[=variant]
           If this option is given, dvisvgm doesn’t create SVG font elements but uses paths instead. The resulting
           SVG files tends to be larger but concurrently more compatible with most applications that don’t support
           SVG fonts yet. The optional argument variant selects the method how to substitute fonts by paths. Variant
           0 creates path and use elements. Variant 1 creates path elements only. Option --no-fonts implies
           --no-styles.

       -c, --scale=sx[,sy]
           Scales the page content horizontally by sx and vertically by sy. This option is equivalent to -TSsx,sy.

       -S, --no-specials[=names]
           Disable processing of special commands embedded in the DVI file. If no further parameter is given, all
           specials are ignored. To selectively disable sets of specials, an optional comma-separated list of names
           can be appended to this option. A name is the unique identifier referencing the intended special handler.
           Option --list-specials lists all currently available handlers and their names. All unsupported special
           statements are silently ignored.

       --no-styles
           By default, dvisvgm creates CSS styles and class attributes to reference fonts because it’s more compact
           than repeatedly set the complete font information in each text element. However, if you prefer direct
           font references, the default behavior can be disabled with option --no-styles.

       -o, --output=pattern
           Sets the name pattern of the output file. Parameter pattern is a string that may contain the variables %f
           and %p.  %f stands for the base name of the DVI file, i.e. the DVI filename without suffix, and %p is the
           current page number. The default pattern is %f-%p.svg if the DVI file consists of more than one page, and
           %f.svg otherwise. That means, a DVI file foo.dvi is converted to foo.svg if foo.dvi is a single-page
           document. Otherwise, multiple SVG files foo-01.svg, foo-02.svg, etc. are produced. In Windows
           environments, the percent sign indicates dereferenced environment variables, and must therefore be
           protected by a second percent sign, e.g.  --output=%%f-%%p.

       -p, --page=ranges
           This option sets the pages to be processed. Parameter ranges consists of a comma-separated list of single
           page numbers and/or page ranges. A page range is a pair of numbers separated by a hyphen, e.g. 5-12.
           Thus, a page sequence might look like this: 2-4,6,9-12,15. It doesn’t matter if a page is given more than
           once or if page ranges overlap. dvisvgm always extracts the page numbers in ascending order and converts
           them only once. In order to stay compatible with previous versions, the default page sequence is 1.
           dvisvgm therefore converts only the first page and not the whole document in case option --page is
           omitted. Usually, page ranges consist of two numbers denoting the first and last page to be converted. If
           the conversion is to be started at page 1, or if it should continue up to the last DVI page, the first or
           second range number can be omitted, respectively. Example: --page=-10 converts all pages up to page 10,
           --page=10- converts all pages starting with page 10. Please consider that the page values don’t refer to
           the page numbers printed on the page. Instead, the physical page count is expected, where the first page
           always gets number 1.

       -d, --precision=digits
           Specifies the maximal number of decimal places applied to floating-point attribute values. All attribute
           values written to the generated SVG file(s) are rounded accordingly. The parameter digits allows integer
           values from 0 to 6, where 0 enables the automatic selection of significant decimal places. This is also
           the default value if dvisvgm is called without option --precision.

       -P, --progress[=delay]
           Enables a simple progress indicator shown when time-consuming operations like PostScript specials are
           processed. The indicator doesn’t appear before the given delay (in seconds) has elapsed. The default
           delay value is 0.5 seconds.

       -r, --rotate=angle
           Rotates the page content clockwise by angle degrees around the page center. This option is equivalent to
           -TRangle.

       -s, --stdout
           Don’t write the SVG output to a file but redirect it to stdout.

       -T, --transform=commands
           Applies a sequence of transformations to the SVG content. Each transformation is described by a command
           beginning with a capital letter followed by a list of comma-separated parameters. Following
           transformation commands are supported:

           T tx[,ty]
               Translates (moves) the page in direction of vector (tx,ty). If ty is omitted, ty=0 is assumed. The
               expected unit length of tx and ty are TeX points (1pt = 1/72.27in). However, there are several
               constants defined to simplify the unit conversion (see below).

           S sx[,sy]
               Scales the page horizontally by sx and vertically by sy. If sy is omitted, sy=sx is assumed.

           R angle[,x,y]
               Rotates the page clockwise by angle degrees around point (x,y). If the optional arguments x and y are
               omitted, the page will be rotated around its center depending on the chosen page format. When option
               -bnone is given, the rotation center is origin (0,0).

           KX angle
               Skews the page along the x-axis by angle degrees. Argument angle can take any value except 90+180k,
               where k is an integer.

           KY angle
               Skews the page along the y-axis by angle degrees. Argument angle can take any value except 90+180k,
               where k is an integer.

           FH [y]
               Mirrors (flips) the page at the horizontal line through point (0,y). Omitting the optional argument
               leads to y=h/2, where h denotes the page height (see pre-defined constants below).

           FV [x]
               Mirrors (flips) the page at the vertical line through point (x,0). Omitting the optional argument
               leads to x=w/2, where w denotes the page width (see pre-defined constants below).

           M m1,...,m6
               Applies a transformation described by the 3×3 matrix ((m1,m2,m3),(m4,m5,m6),(0,0,1)), where the inner
               triples denote the rows.

                   Note
                   All transformation commands of option -T, --transform are applied in the order of their
                   appearance. Multiple commands can optionally be separated by spaces. In this case the whole
                   transformation string has to be enclosed in double quotes. All parameters are expressions of
                   floating point type. You can either give plain numbers or arithmetic terms combined by the
                   operators + (addition), - (subtraction), * (multiplication), / (division) or % (modulo) with
                   common associativity and precedence rules. Parentheses may be used as well.

                   Additionally, some pre-defined constants are provided:

                   ux   horizontal position of upper left page
                        corner in TeX point units
                   uy   vertical position of upper left page
                        corner in TeX point units
                   h    page height in TeX point units (0 in
                        case of -bnone)
                   w    page width in TeX point units (0 in
                        case of -bnone)

                   Furthermore, you can use the length constants pt, mm, cm and in, e.g.  2cm or 1.6in. Thus, option
                   -TT1in,0R45 moves the page content 1 inch to the right and rotates it by 45 degrees around the
                   page center afterwards.

                   For single transformations you can also use options -c, -t and -r. Note that the order in which
                   these options are given is not significant, i.e. you can’t use them to describe transformation
                   sequences. They are simply independent shorthand options for common transformations.

       -t, --translate=tx[,ty]
           Translates (moves) the page content in direction of vector (tx,ty). This option is equivalent to
           -TTtx,ty.

       -v, --verbosity=level
           Controls the type of messages printed during a dvisvgm run:

           0   no message output
           1   error messages only
           2   warning messages only
           4   informational messages only


               Note
               By adding these values you can combine the categories. The default level is 7, i.e. all messages are
               printed.

       -V, --version[=extended]
           Prints the version of dvisvgm and exits. If the optional argument is set to yes, the version numbers of
           the linked libraries are printed as well.

       -z, --zip[=level]
           Creates a compressed SVG file with suffix .svgz. The optional argument specifies the compression level.
           Valid values are in the range of 1 to 9 (default value is 9). Larger values cause better compression
           results but take more computation time.

               Caution
               This option cannot be combined with -s, --stdout.

SUPPORT OF SPECIALS
       dvisvgm supports several sets of special commands that can be used to enrich DVI files with additional
       features, like color, graphics or hyperlinks. The evaluation of special commands is delegated to various
       handlers. Each handler is responsible for all special statements of the same command set, i.e. commands
       beginning with the same prefix. To get a list of actually provided special handlers, use option
       --list-specials (see above).

       bgcolor
           Special statement for changing the background/page color. Since SVG 1.1 doesn’t support background
           colors, dvisvgm inserts a rectangle of the chosen color into the generated SVG document. This rectangle
           always gets the same size as the selected or computed bounding box. This background color command is part
           of the color special set but is handled separately in order to let the user turn it off. For an overview
           of the command syntax, see the documentation of dvips, for instance.

       color
           Statements of this command set provide instructions to change the text/paint color. For an overview of
           the exact syntax, see the documentation of dvips, for instance.

       dvisvgm
           dvisvgm offers its own small set of specials. The following list gives a brief overview.

           dvisvgm:raw text
               Adds an arbitrary sequence of characters to the SVG output. dvisvgm does not perform any validation
               here, thus the user has to ensure that the resulting SVG is still valid. Parameter text may contain
               the macros {?x}, {?y}, and {?color} that are expanded to the current x or y coordinate and the
               current color, respectively. Also, macro {?nl} expands to a newline character.

           dvisvgm:img width height file
               Creates an image element at the current graphic position referencing the given file. JPEG, PNG, and
               SVG images can be used here. However, dvisvgm does not check the file format or the file name suffix.
               The lengths width and height must be given as plain floating point numbers in TeX point units (1in =
               72.27pt).

           dvisvgm:bbox n[ew] name
               Defines or resets a local bounding box called name. The name may consist of letters and digits. While
               processing a DVI page, dvisvgm continuously updates the (global) bounding box of the current page in
               order to determine the minimal rectangle containing all visible page components (characters, images,
               drawing elements etc.) Additionally to the global bounding box, the user can request an arbitrary
               number of named local bounding boxes. Once defined, these boxes are updated together with the global
               bounding box starting with the first character that follows the definition. Thus, the local boxes can
               be used to compute the extent of parts of the page. This is useful for scenarios where the generated
               SVG file is post-processed. In conjunction with special dvisvgm:raw, the macro {?bbox name} expands
               to the four values x, y, w, and h (separated by spaces) specifying the coordinates of the upper left
               corner, width, and height of the local box name. If box name wasn’t previously defined, all four
               values equal zero.

           dvisvgm:bbox width height [depth]
               Updates the bounding box of the current page by embedding a virtual rectangle (x, y, width, height)
               where the lower left corner is located at the current DVI drawing position (x,y). If the optional
               parameter depth is specified, dvisvgm embeds a second rectangle (x, y, width, -depth). The lengths
               width, height and depth must be given as plain floating point numbers in TeX point units (1in =
               72.27pt). Depending on size and position of the virtual rectangle, this command either enlarges the
               overall bounding box or leaves it as is. It’s not possible to reduce its extent. This special should
               be used in conjunction with dvisvgm:raw in order to update the viewport of the page properly.

           dvisvgm:bbox a[bs] x1 y1 x2 y2
               This variant of the bbox special updates the bounding box by embedding a virtual rectangle
               (x1,y1,x2,y2). The points (x1,y1) and (x2,y2) denote two diagonal corners of the rectangle given in
               TeX point units.

           dvisvgm:bbox f[ix] x1 y1 x2 y2
               This variant of the bbox special assigns an absolute (final) bounding box to the resulting SVG. After
               executing this command, dvisvgm doesn’t further alter the bounding box coordinates, except this
               special is called again later. The points (x1,y1) and (x2,y2) denote two diagonal corners of the
               rectangle given in TeX point units.

               The following TeX snippet adds two raw SVG elements to the output and updates the bounding box
               accordingly:

                   \special{dvisvgm:raw <circle cx='{?x}' cy='{?y}' r='10' stroke='black' fill='red'/>}
                   \special{dvisvgm:bbox 20 10 10}

                   \special{dvisvgm:raw <path d='M50 200 L10 250 H100 Z' stroke='black' fill='blue'/>}
                   \special{dvisvgm:bbox abs 10 200 100 250}

       em
           These specials were introduced with the emTeX distribution by Eberhard Mattes. They provide line drawing
           statements, instructions for embedding MSP, PCX, and BMP image files, as well as two PCL commands.
           dvisvgm supports only the line drawing statements and ignores all other em specials silently. A
           description of the command syntax can be found in the DVI driver documentation coming with emTeX (see
           CTAN).

       pdf
           pdfTeX and dvipdfmx introduced several special commands related to the generation of PDF files.
           Currently, only two of them, pdf:mapfile and pdf:mapline are supported by dvisvgm. These specials allow
           modifying the font map tree during the processing of DVI files. They are used by CTeX, for example.
           dvisvgm supports both, the dvips and dvipdfm font map format. For further information on the command
           syntax and semantics, see the documentation of \pdfmapfile in the pdfTeX user manual.

       ps
           The famous DVI driver dvips introduced its own set of specials in order to embed PostScript code into DVI
           files, which greatly improves the capabilities of DVI documents. One aim of dvisvgm is to completely
           evaluate all PostScript snippets and to convert a large amount of it to SVG. However, in contrast to
           dvips, dvisvgm uses floating point arithmetics to compute the precise position of each graphic element,
           i.e. it doesn’t round the coordinates. Therefore, the relative locations of the graphic elements may
           slightly differ from those computed by dvips.

           Since PostScript is a rather complex language, dvisvgm does not try to implement its own PostScript
           interpreter but relies on Ghostscript instead. If the Ghostscript library was not linked while building
           dvisvgm, it is looked up and loaded dynamically during runtime. In this case, dvisvgm looks for libgs.so
           on Unix-like systems, and for gsdll32.dll or gsdll64.dll on Windows. You can override these default file
           names with environment variable LIBGS or the command-line option --libgs. The library must be installed
           and reachable through the ld search path (*nix) or the PATH environment variable (Windows). If it cannot
           be found, the processing of PostScript specials is disabled. Use option --list-specials to check whether
           PS support is available, i.e. the entry ps is present.

       tpic
           The TPIC special set defines instructions for drawing simple geometric objects. Some LaTeX packages, like
           eepic and tplot, use these specials to describe graphics.

EXAMPLES
           dvisvgm file

       Converts the first page of file.dvi to file.svg.

           dvisvgm -z file

       Converts the first page of file.dvi to file.svgz with default compression level 9.

           dvisvgm -p5 -z3 -ba4-l -onewfile file

       Converts the fifth page of file.dvi to newfile.svgz with compression level 3. The bounding box is set to
       DIN/ISO A4 in landscape format.

           dvisvgm --transform="R20,w/3,2h/5 T1cm,1cm S2,3" file

       Converts the first page of file.dvi to file.svg where three transformations are applied.

ENVIRONMENT
       dvisvgm uses the kpathsea library for locating the files that it opens. Hence, the environment variables
       described in the library’s documentation influence the converter.

       If dvisvgm was linked without the Ghostscript library, and if PostScript support has not been disabled, the
       shared Ghostscript library is looked up during runtime via dlopen(). The environment variable LIBGS can be
       used to specify path and file name of the library.

       The pre-compiled Windows versions of dvisvgm require a working installation of MiKTeX 2.9 or above. dvisvgm
       does not work together with the portable edition of MiKTeX because it relies on MiKTeX’s COM interface only
       accessible in a local installation. To enable the evaluation of PostScript specials, the original Ghostscript
       DLL gsdll32.dll must be present and reachable through the search path. 64-bit Windows builds require the
       64-bit Ghostscript DLL gsdll64.dll. Both DLLs come with the corresponding Ghostscript installers available
       from www.ghostscript.com.

       The environment variable DVISVGM_COLORS specifies the colors used to highlight various parts of dvisvgm’s
       message output. It is only evaluated if option --color is given. The value of DVISVGM_COLORS is a list of
       colon-separated entries of the form gg=BF, where gg denotes one of the color group indicators listed below,
       and BF are two hexadecimal digits specifying the background (first digit) and foreground/text color (second
       digit). The color color values are defined as follows: 0=black, 1=red, 2=green, 3=yellow, 4=blue, 5=magenta,
       6=cyan, 7=gray, 8=bright red, 9=bright green, A=bright yellow, B=bright blue, C=bright magenta, D=bright
       cyan, E=bright gray, F=white. Depending on the terminal, the colors may differ. Rather than changing both the
       text and background color, it’s also possible to change only one of them: An asterisk (*) in place of a
       hexadecimal digit indicates the default text or background color of the terminal.

       All malformed entries in the list are silently ignored.


       er   error messages

       wn   warning messages

       pn   messages about page numbers

       ps   page size messages

       fw   information about the files written

       sm   state messages

       tr   messages of the glyph tracer

       pi   progress indicator


       Example: er=01:pi=*5 sets the colors of error messages (er) to red (1) on black (0), and those of progress
       indicators (pi) to cyan (5) on default background (*).

FILES
       The location of the following files is determined by the kpathsea library. To check the actual kpathsea
       configuration you can use the kpsewhich utility.


       *.enc   Font encoding files

       *.fgd   Font glyph data files (cache files
               created by dvisvgm)

       *.map   Font map files

       *.mf    Metafont input files

       *.pfb   PostScript Type 1 font files



       *.pro   PostScript header/prologue files

       *.tfm   TeX font metric files

       *.ttf   TrueType font files

       *.vf    Virtual font files


SEE ALSO
       tex(1), mf(1), mktexmf(1), grodvi(1), potrace(1), and the kpathsea library info documentation.

RESOURCES
       Project home page
           http://dvisvgm.sourceforge.net

       SourceForge project site
           http://sourceforge.net/projects/dvisvgm

BUGS
       Please report bugs using the bug tracker at Launchpad (see https://launchpad.net/dvisvgm).

AUTHOR
       Written by Martin Gieseking <martin.gieseking@uos.de>

COPYING
       Copyright © 2005-2013 Martin Gieseking. Free use of this software is granted under the terms of the GNU
       General Public License (GPL) version 3 or, (at your option) any later version.

AUTHOR
       Martin Gieseking <martin.gieseking@uos.de>
           Author.



dvisvgm 1.2.2                                        04/25/2013                                           DVISVGM(1)
