ETEX(1)                                        General Commands Manual                                       ETEX(1)



NAME
       etex - extended (plain) TeX

SYNOPSIS
       etex [options] [&format] [file|\commands]

DESCRIPTION
       Run  the  e-TeX  typesetter  on  file,  by default creating file.dvi.  If the file argument has no extension,
       ".tex" will be appended to it.  Instead of a filename, a set of e-TeX commands can be  given,  the  first  of
       which  must  start  with a backslash.  With a &format argument e-TeX uses a different set of precompiled com‐
       mands, contained in format.fmt; it is usually better to use the -fmt format option instead.

       e-TeX is the first concrete result of an international research & development project, the NTS Project, which
       was  established  under  the  aegis  of DANTE e.V. during 1992. The aims of the project are to perpetuate and
       develop the spirit and philosophy of TeX, whilst respecting Knuth's wish that TeX should remain frozen.

       e-TeX can be used in two different modes: in compatibility mode  it  is  supposed  to  be  completely  inter‐
       changable  with standard TeX.  In extended mode several new primitives are added that facilitate (among other
       things) bidirectional typesetting.

       An extended mode format is generated by prefixing the name of the source file for the format with an asterisk
       (*).

       e-TeX's  handling  of  its  command-line  arguments is similar to that of the other TeX programs in the web2c
       implementation.

OPTIONS
       This version of e-TeX understands the following command line options.

       -fmt format
              Use format as the name of the format to be used, instead of the name by which e-TeX was called or a %&
              line.

       -enc   Enable the encTeX extensions.  This option is only effective in combination with -ini.  For documenta‐
              tion of the encTeX extensions see http://www.olsak.net/enctex.html.

       -etex  Enable the e-TeX extensions.  This option is only effective in combination with -ini.

       -file-line-error
              Print error messages in the form file:line:error which is similar to the  way  many  compilers  format
              them.

       -no-file-line-error
              Disable printing error messages in the file:line:error style.

       -file-line-error-style
              This is the old name of the -file-line-error option.

       -halt-on-error
              Exit with an error code when an error is encountered during processing.

       -help  Print help message and exit.

       -ini   Start  in  INI  mode, which is used to dump formats.  The INI mode can be used for typesetting, but no
              format is preloaded, and basic initializations like setting catcodes may be required.

       -interaction mode
              Sets the interaction mode.  The mode can be either batchmode, nonstopmode, scrollmode, and  errorstop‐
              mode.  The meaning of these modes is the same as that of the corresponding \commands.

       -ipc   Send DVI output to a socket as well as the usual output file.  Whether this option is available is the
              choice of the installer.

       -ipc-start
              As -ipc, and starts the server at the other end as well.  Whether this  option  is  available  is  the
              choice of the installer.

       -jobname name
              Use name for the job name, instead of deriving it from the name of the input file.

       -kpathsea-debug bitmask
              Sets path searching debugging flags according to the bitmask.  See the Kpathsea manual for details.

       -mktex fmt
              Enable mktexfmt, where fmt must be either tex or tfm.

       -mltex Enable MLTeX extensions.  Only effective in combination with -ini.

       -no-mktex fmt
              Disable mktexfmt, where fmt must be either tex or tfm.

       -output-comment string
              Use string for the DVI file comment instead of the date.

       -output-directory directory
              Write  output  files  in directory instead of the current directory.  Look up input files in directory
              first, the along the normal search path.

       -parse-first-line
              If the first line of the main input file begins with %& parse it to look for a dump name or a  -trans‐
              late-file option.

       -no-parse-first-line
              Disable parsing of the first line of the main input file.

       -progname name
              Pretend to be program name.  This affects both the format used and the search paths.

       -recorder
              Enable  the filename recorder.  This leaves a trace of the files opened for input and output in a file
              with extension .fls.

       -shell-escape
              Enable the \write18{command} construct.  The command can be any shell command.  This construct is nor‐
              mally disallowed for security reasons.

       -no-shell-escape
              Disable the \write18{command} construct, even if it is enabled in the texmf.cnf file.

       -src-specials
              Insert source specials into the DVI file.

       -src-specials where
              Insert  source specials in certain placed of the DVI file.  where is a comma-separated value list: cr,
              display, hbox, math, par, parent, or vbox.

       -translate-file tcxname
              Use the tcxname translation table to set the mapping of input  characters  and  re-mapping  of  output
              characters.

       -default-translate-file tcxname
              Like -translate-file except that a %& line can overrule this setting.

       -version
              Print version information and exit.

ENVIRONMENT
       See  the  Kpathsearch  library  documentation (the `Path specifications' node) for precise details of how the
       environment variables are used.  The kpsewhich utility can be used to query the values of the variables.

       One caveat: In most e-TeX formats, you cannot use ~ in a filename you give directly to e-TeX, because ~ is an
       active  character,  and  hence is expanded, not taken as part of the filename.  Other programs, such as Meta‐
       font, do not have this problem.

       TEXMFOUTPUT
              Normally, e-TeX puts its output files in the current directory.  If any output file cannot  be  opened
              there,  it tries to open it in the directory specified in the environment variable TEXMFOUTPUT.  There
              is no default value for that variable.  For example, if you say etex paper and the  current  directory
              is  not  writable,  if  TEXMFOUTPUT  has  the value /tmp, e-TeX attempts to create /tmp/paper.log (and
              /tmp/paper.dvi, if any output is produced.)  TEXMFOUTPUT is also checked for input files, as TeX often
              generates files that need to be subsequently read; for input, no suffixes (such as ``.tex'') are added
              by default, the input name is simply checked as given.

       TEXINPUTS
              Search path for \input and \openin files.  This should start with ``.'', so that user files are  found
              before system files.  An empty path component will be replaced with the paths defined in the texmf.cnf
              file.  For example,  set  TEXINPUTS  to  ".:/home/user/tex:"  to  prepend  the  current  direcory  and
              ``/home/user/tex'' to the standard search path.

       TEXFORMATS
              Search path for format files.

       TEXPOOL
              search path for etex internal strings.

       TEXEDIT
              Command template for switching to editor.  The default, usually vi, is set when e-TeX is compiled.

       TFMFONTS
              Search path for font metric (.tfm) files.

FILES
       The  location  of  the files mentioned below varies from system to system.  Use the kpsewhich utility to find
       their locations.

       etex.pool
              Text file containing e-TeX's internal strings.

       texfonts.map
              Filename mapping definitions.

       *.tfm  Metric files for e-TeX's fonts.

       *.fmt  Predigested e-TeX format (.fmt) files.

NOTES
       Starting with version 1.40, pdfTeX incorporates the e-TeX extensions, so in this  installation  eTeX  may  be
       just  a  symbolic  link to pdfTeX.  See pdftex(1).  This manual page is not meant to be exhaustive.  The com‐
       plete documentation for this version of e-TeX can be found in the info manual Web2C: A TeX implementation.

BUGS
       This version of e-TeX implements a number of optional extensions.  In fact, many of these extensions conflict
       to  a  greater  or  lesser extent with the definition of e-TeX.  When such extensions are enabled, the banner
       printed when e-TeX starts is changed to print e-TeXk instead of e-TeX.

       This version of e-TeX fails to trap arithmetic overflow when dimensions are added or subtracted.  Cases where
       this occurs are rare, but when it does the generated DVI file will be invalid.

SEE ALSO
       pdftex(1), tex(1), mf(1).

AUTHORS
       e-TeX was developed by Peter Breitenlohner and the NTS team; Peter later continued its development outside of
       the team.

       TeX was designed by Donald E. Knuth, who implemented it using his Web system for  Pascal  programs.   It  was
       ported  to  Unix at Stanford by Howard Trickey, and at Cornell by Pavel Curtis.  The version now offered with
       the Unix TeX distribution is that generated by the Web to C  system  (web2c),  originally  written  by  Tomas
       Rokicki and Tim Morgan.

       The encTeX extensions were written by Petr Olsak.



Web2C 2011                                          1 March 2011                                             ETEX(1)
