extcheck(1)                                          Basic Tools                                         extcheck(1)



NAME
       extcheck - Detects version conflicts between a target Java Archive (JAR) file and currently installed
       extension JAR files.

SYNOPSIS
       extcheck [options] targetfile.jar


       options
              The command-line options. See Options.

       targetfile.jar
              The target JAR file against which the currently installed extension JAR files are compared to detect
              version conflicts.

DESCRIPTION
       The extcheck command checks a specified JAR file for title and version conflicts with any extensions
       installed in the Java SE SDK. Before installing an extension, you can use this utility to see whether the
       same or a more recent version of the extension is already installed.

       The extcheck command compares the Specification-title and Specification-version headers in the manifest of
       the targetfile.jar file against the corresponding headers in all JAR files currently installed in the
       extension directory. By default, the extension directory is jre/lib/ext on Oracle Solaris and \jre\lib\ext on
       Windows. The extcheck command compares version numbers in the same way as the
       java.lang.Package.isCompatibleWith method.

       If no conflict is detected, then the return code is 0.

       If the manifest of any JAR file in the extensions directory has the same Specification-title and the same or
       a newer Specification-version number, then a non-zero error code is returned. A non-zero error code is also
       returned when targetfile.jar does not have the Specification-title or Specification-version attributes in its
       manifest file.

OPTIONS
       -verbose
              Lists JAR files in the extension directory as they are checked. Additionally, manifest attributes of
              the target JAR file and any conflicting JAR files are also reported.

       -Joption
              Passes option to the Java Virtual Machine (JVM), where option is one of the options described on the
              reference page for the Java launcher. For example, -J-Xms48m sets the startup memory to 48 MB. See
              java(1).

SEE ALSO
       · jar(1)



JDK 8                                             21 November 2013                                       extcheck(1)
