fiascotopnm(1)                                 General Commands Manual                                fiascotopnm(1)



NAME
       fiascotopnm - Convert compressed FIASCO image to PGM, or PPM


SYNOPSIS
       fiascotopnm [option]...  [filename]...


DESCRIPTION
       fiascotopnm  decompresses  the  named FIASCO files, or the Standard Input if no file is named, and writes the
       images as PGM, or PPM files, depending on whether the FIASCO image is black and white or color.


OPTIONS
       All option names may be abbreviated; for example, --output may be written --outp or --ou. For all options  an
       one letter short option is provided. Mandatory or optional arguments to long options are mandatory or option‐
       al for short options, too. Both short and long options are case sensitive.


       -o[name], --output=[name]
              Write decompressed image to the file name.ppm (if PPM) or name.pgm (if PGM).  If name=-  then  produce
              the image file on the standard output. The optional argument name can be omitted, then the input file‐
              name is used as basename with the suffix .ppm or .pgm. In case of video streams, the frames are stored
              in  the  files name.N.ppm where N is the frame number (of the form 00..0 - 99..9); output on the stan‐
              dard output is not possible with video streams.

              If name is a relative path and the environment variable FIASCO_IMAGES is a (colon-separated)  list  of
              directories,  then the output file(s) are written to the first (writable) directory of this list. Oth‐
              erwise, the current directory is used to store the output file(s).


       -z, --fast
              Decompress images in the 4:2:0 format; i.e., each chroma channel is decompressed to an image of halved
              width  and  height.  Use this option on slow machines when the desired frame rate is not achieved; the
              output quality is only slightly decreased.


       -d, --double
              Double the size of the X11 window both in width and height; no pixel interpolation is used, each pixel
              is just replaced by four identical pixels.


       -p, --panel
              Show  a  panel  with play, stop, pause, record and exit buttons to control the display of videos. When
              pressing the record button, all frames are decompressed and stored in memory. The other  buttons  work
              in the usual way.


       -m N, --magnify=N
              Set  magnification  of  the decompressed image. Positive values enlarge and negative values reduce the
              image width and height by a factor of 2^|N|.


       -s N, --smooth=N
              Smooth decompressed image(s) along the partitioning borders by the given amount N. N is 1 (minimum) to
              100 (maximum); default is 70. When N=0, then the smoothing amount specified in the FIASCO file is used
              (defined by the FIASCO coder).


       -F N, --fps=N
              Set number of frames per second to N. When using this option, the frame rate specified in  the  FIASCO
              file is overridden.


       -v, --version
              Print fiascotopnm version number, then exit.


       -f name, --config=name
              Load  parameter  file  name to initialize the options of fiascotopnm.  See file system.fiascorc for an
              example of the syntax. Options of fiascotopnm are set by any of the following methods (in  the  speci‐
              fied order):

              1) Global ressource file /etc/system.fiascorc

              2) $HOME/.fiascorc

              3) command line

              4) --config=name


       -h, --info
              Print brief help, then exit.


       -H, --help
              Print detailed help, then exit.



EXAMPLES
       fiascotopnm foo.wfa >foo.ppm
              Decompress the FIASCO file "foo.wfa" and store it as "foo.ppm".


       fiascotopnm -o foo1.wfa foo2.wfa
              Decompress  the  FIASCO  files  "foo1.wfa"  and  "foo2.wfa"  and  write  the frames to the image files
              "foo1.wfa.ppm" and "foo2.wfa.ppm".


       fiascotopnm -oimage foo1.wfa
              Decompress the FIASCO file "foo1.wfa" and write all 15 frames to the image files "image.00.ppm", ... ,
              "image.14.ppm".


       fiascotopnm --fast --magnify=-1 --double video.wfa >stream.ppm
              Decompress  the FIASCO file "video.wfa".  The decompression speed is as fast as possible: the image is
              decompressed (in 4:2:0 format) at a quarter of its original size; then the image is enlarged again  by
              pixel doubling.



FILES
       /etc/system.fiascorc
              The systemwide initialization file.
       $HOME/.fiascorc
              The personal initialization file.


ENVIRONMENT
       FIASCO_IMAGES
              Save path for image files. Default is "./".
       FIASCO_DATA
              Search path for FIASCO files. Default is "./".


SEE ALSO
       pnmtofiasco(1), pnm(5)

       Ullrich Hafner, Juergen Albert, Stefan Frank, and Michael Unger.  Weighted Finite Automata for Video Compres‐
       sion, IEEE Journal on Selected Areas In Communications, January 1998
       Ullrich Hafner. Low Bit-Rate Image and Video Coding with Weighted Finite Automata,  Ph.D.  thesis,  Mensch  &
       Buch Verlag, ISBN 3-89820-002-7, October 1999.


AUTHOR
       Ullrich Hafner <hafner@bigfoot.de>



                                                    July 12, 2000                                     fiascotopnm(1)
