FIND2PERL(1)                              Perl Programmers Reference Guide                              FIND2PERL(1)



NAME
       find2perl - translate find command lines to Perl code

SYNOPSIS
               find2perl [paths] [predicates] | perl

DESCRIPTION
       find2perl is a little translator to convert find command lines to equivalent Perl code.  The resulting code
       is typically faster than running find itself.

       "paths" are a set of paths where find2perl will start its searches and "predicates" are taken from the
       following list.

       "! PREDICATE"
           Negate the sense of the following predicate.  The "!" must be passed as a distinct argument, so it may
           need to be surrounded by whitespace and/or quoted from interpretation by the shell using a backslash
           (just as with using find(1)).

       "( PREDICATES )"
           Group the given PREDICATES.  The parentheses must be passed as distinct arguments, so they may need to be
           surrounded by whitespace and/or quoted from interpretation by the shell using a backslash (just as with
           using find(1)).

       "PREDICATE1 PREDICATE2"
           True if _both_ PREDICATE1 and PREDICATE2 are true; PREDICATE2 is not evaluated if PREDICATE1 is false.

       "PREDICATE1 -o PREDICATE2"
           True if either one of PREDICATE1 or PREDICATE2 is true; PREDICATE2 is not evaluated if PREDICATE1 is
           true.

       "-follow"
           Follow (dereference) symlinks.  The checking of file attributes depends on the position of the "-follow"
           option. If it precedes the file check option, an "stat" is done which means the file check applies to the
           file the symbolic link is pointing to. If "-follow" option follows the file check option, this now
           applies to the symbolic link itself, i.e.  an "lstat" is done.

       "-depth"
           Change directory traversal algorithm from breadth-first to depth-first.

       "-prune"
           Do not descend into the directory currently matched.

       "-xdev"
           Do not traverse mount points (prunes search at mount-point directories).

       "-name GLOB"
           File name matches specified GLOB wildcard pattern.  GLOB may need to be quoted to avoid interpretation by
           the shell (just as with using find(1)).

       "-iname GLOB"
           Like "-name", but the match is case insensitive.

       "-path GLOB"
           Path name matches specified GLOB wildcard pattern.

       "-ipath GLOB"
           Like "-path", but the match is case insensitive.

       "-perm PERM"
           Low-order 9 bits of permission match octal value PERM.

       "-perm -PERM"
           The bits specified in PERM are all set in file's permissions.

       "-type X"
           The file's type matches perl's "-X" operator.

       "-fstype TYPE"
           Filesystem of current path is of type TYPE (only NFS/non-NFS distinction is implemented).

       "-user USER"
           True if USER is owner of file.

       "-group GROUP"
           True if file's group is GROUP.

       "-nouser"
           True if file's owner is not in password database.

       "-nogroup"
           True if file's group is not in group database.

       "-inum INUM"
           True file's inode number is INUM.

       "-links N"
           True if (hard) link count of file matches N (see below).

       "-size N"
           True if file's size matches N (see below) N is normally counted in 512-byte blocks, but a suffix of "c"
           specifies that size should be counted in characters (bytes) and a suffix of "k" specifies that size
           should be counted in 1024-byte blocks.

       "-atime N"
           True if last-access time of file matches N (measured in days) (see below).

       "-ctime N"
           True if last-changed time of file's inode matches N (measured in days, see below).

       "-mtime N"
           True if last-modified time of file matches N (measured in days, see below).

       "-newer FILE"
           True if last-modified time of file matches N.

       "-print"
           Print out path of file (always true). If none of "-exec", "-ls", "-print0", or "-ok" is specified, then
           "-print" will be added implicitly.

       "-print0"
           Like -print, but terminates with \0 instead of \n.

       "-exec OPTIONS ;"
           exec() the arguments in OPTIONS in a subprocess; any occurrence of {} in OPTIONS will first be
           substituted with the path of the current file.  Note that the command "rm" has been special-cased to use
           perl's unlink() function instead (as an optimization).  The ";" must be passed as a distinct argument, so
           it may need to be surrounded by whitespace and/or quoted from interpretation by the shell using a
           backslash (just as with using find(1)).

       "-ok OPTIONS ;"
           Like -exec, but first prompts user; if user's response does not begin with a y, skip the exec.  The ";"
           must be passed as a distinct argument, so it may need to be surrounded by whitespace and/or quoted from
           interpretation by the shell using a backslash (just as with using find(1)).

       "-eval EXPR"
           Has the perl script eval() the EXPR.

       "-ls"
           Simulates "-exec ls -dils {} ;"

       "-tar FILE"
           Adds current output to tar-format FILE.

       "-cpio FILE"
           Adds current output to old-style cpio-format FILE.

       "-ncpio FILE"
           Adds current output to "new"-style cpio-format FILE.

       Predicates which take a numeric argument N can come in three forms:

          * N is prefixed with a +: match values greater than N
          * N is prefixed with a -: match values less than N
          * N is not prefixed with either + or -: match only values equal to N

SEE ALSO
       find, File::Find.



perl v5.18.2                                         2016-03-01                                         FIND2PERL(1)
