FONTTOSFNT(1)                                  General Commands Manual                                 FONTTOSFNT(1)



NAME
       fonttosfnt - Wrap a bitmap font in a sfnt (TrueType) wrapper

SYNOPSIS
       fonttosfnt [ options ] -o file.ttf [ -- ] font...

DESCRIPTION
       Wrap a bitmap font or a set of bitmap fonts in a sfnt (TrueType or OpenType) wrapper.

OPTIONS
       -v     Be verbose.

       -c     Do  not  crop  glyphs.  This usually increases file size, but may sometimes yield a modest decrease in
              file size for small character cell fonts (terminal fonts).

       -b     Write byte-aligned glyph data.  By default, unaligned data is written, which  yields  a  smaller  file
              size.

       -r     Do not reencode fonts.  By default, fonts are reencoded to Unicode whenever possible.

       -g n   Set  the  type  of  scalable glyphs that we write.  If n is 0, no scalable glyphs are written; this is
              legal but confuses most current software.  If n is 1, a single scalable glyph (the undefined glyph) is
              written;  this  is  recommended,  but  triggers a bug in current versions of FreeType.  If n is 2 (the
              default), a sufficiently high number of blank glyphs  are  written,  which  works  with  FreeType  but
              increases file size.

       -m n   Set the type of scalable metrics that we write.  If n is 0, no scalable metrics are written, which may
              or may not be legal.  If n is 1, full metrics for a single glyph are written, and only left  sidebear‐
              ing  values are written for the other glyphs.  If n is 2, scalable metrics for all glyphs are written,
              which increases file size and is not recommended.  The default is 1.

       --     End of options.

BUGS
       Some of the font-level values, notably sub- and superscript positions, are dummy values.

SEE ALSO
       X(7), Xserver(1), Xft(3x).  Fonts in X11.

AUTHOR
       The version of Fonttosfnt included in this  X.Org  Foundation  release  was  originally  written  by  Juliusz
       Chroboczek <jch@freedesktop.org> for the XFree86 project.



X Version 11                                      fonttosfnt 1.0.4                                     FONTTOSFNT(1)
