FSLSFONTS(1)                                   General Commands Manual                                  FSLSFONTS(1)



NAME
       fslsfonts - list fonts served by X font server

SYNOPSIS
       fslsfonts [-options ...] [-fn pattern]

DESCRIPTION
       fslsfonts  lists the fonts that match the given pattern.  The wildcard character "*" may be used to match any
       sequence of characters (including none), and "?" to match any single character.  If no pattern is given,  "*"
       is assumed.

       The "*" and "?" characters must be quoted to prevent them from being expanded by the shell.

OPTIONS
       -server servername
               This  option specifies the X font server to contact.  servername must be specified in one of the for‐
               mats defined in the Font Server Names section of X(7).   If not specified, the  server  name  in  the
               FONTSERVER environment variable is used.

       -l      Lists some attributes of the font on one line in addition to its name.

       -ll     Lists font properties in addition to -l output.

       -lll    Supported for compatibility with xlsfonts, but output is the same as for -ll.

       -m      This  option  indicates  that  long listings should also print the minimum and maximum bounds of each
               font.

       -C      This option indicates that listings should use multiple columns.  This is the same as -n 0.

       -1      This option indicates that listings should use a single column.  This is the same as -n 1.

       -w width
               This option specifies the width in characters that should be used in figuring out how many columns to
               print.  The default is 79.

       -n columns
               This option specifies the number of columns to use in displaying the output.  The default is 0, which
               will attempt to fit as many columns of font names into the number of character specified by -w width.

       -u      This option indicates that the output should be left unsorted.

ENVIRONMENT
       FONTSERVER
               To get the default fontserver.  The server name must be specified in one of the  formats  defined  in
               the Font Server Names section of X(7).

SEE ALSO
       xfs(1), showfont(1), xlsfonts(1), X(7).

BUGS
       Doing  ``fslsfonts  -l''  can  tie  up  your  server for a very long time.  This is really a bug with single-
       threaded non-preemptable servers, not with this program.

AUTHOR
       Dave Lemke, Network Computing Devices, Inc



X Version 11                                       fslsfonts 1.0.4                                      FSLSFONTS(1)
