FUSER(1)                                            User Commands                                           FUSER(1)



NAME
       fuser - identify processes using files or sockets

SYNOPSIS
       fuser [-fuv] [-a|-s] [-4|-6] [-c|-m|-n space] [ -k [-i] [-M] [-w] [-SIGNAL] ] name ...
       fuser -l
       fuser -V

DESCRIPTION
       fuser displays the PIDs of processes using the specified files or file systems.  In the default display mode,
       each file name is followed by a letter denoting the type of access:

              c      current directory.
              e      executable being run.
              f      open file.  f is omitted in default display mode.
              F      open file for writing.  F is omitted in default display mode.
              r      root directory.
              m      mmap'ed file or shared library.

       fuser returns a non-zero return code if none of the specified files is accessed or in case of a fatal  error.
       If at least one access has been found, fuser returns zero.

       In order to look up processes using TCP and UDP sockets, the corresponding name space has to be selected with
       the -n option. By default fuser will look in both IPv6 and IPv4 sockets.  To change  the  default,  behavior,
       use  the  -4  and  -6  options.   The socket(s) can be specified by the local and remote port, and the remote
       address.  All fields are optional, but commas in front of missing fields must be present:

       [lcl_port][,[rmt_host][,[rmt_port]]]

       Either symbolic or numeric values can be used for IP addresses and port numbers.

       fuser outputs only the PIDs to stdout, everything else is sent to stderr.

OPTIONS
       -a, --all
              Show all files specified on the command line.  By default, only files that are accessed  by  at  least
              one process are shown.

       -c     Same as -m option, used for POSIX compatibility.

       -f     Silently ignored, used for POSIX compatibility.

       -k, --kill
              Kill  processes  accessing  the file.  Unless changed with -SIGNAL, SIGKILL is sent.  An fuser process
              never kills itself, but may kill other fuser processes.  The effective user ID of the process  execut‐
              ing fuser is set to its real user ID before attempting to kill.

       -i, --interactive
              Ask  the  user for confirmation before killing a process. This option is silently ignored if -k is not
              present too.

       -l, --list-signals
              List all known signal names.

       -m NAME, --mount NAME
              NAME specifies a file on a mounted file system or a block  device  that  is  mounted.   All  processes
              accessing files on that file system are listed.  If a directory file is specified, it is automatically
              changed to NAME/.  to use any file system that might be mounted on that directory.

       -M --ismountpoint
              Request will be fulfilled only if NAME specifies a mountpoint.  This is an invaluable  seatbelt  which
              prevents you from killing the machine if NAME happens to not be a filesystem.

       -w     Kill  only  processes  which  have write access.  This option is silently ignored if -k is not present
              too.

       -n SPACE, --namespace SPACE
              Select a different name space.  The name spaces file (file names, the default), udp (local UDP ports),
              and  tcp  (local TCP ports) are supported.  For ports, either the port number or the symbolic name can
              be specified.  If there is no ambiguity, the shortcut notation name/space (e.g. 80/tcp) can be used.

       -s, --silent
              Silent operation.  -u and -v are ignored in this mode.  -a must not be used with -s.

       -SIGNAL
              Use the specified signal instead of SIGKILL when killing processes.  Signals can be  specified  either
              by  name  (e.g.  -HUP)orby number (e.g.  -1).  This option is silently ignored if the -k option is not
              used.

       -u, --user
              Append the user name of the process owner to each PID.

       -v, --verbose

              Verbose mode.  Processes are shown in a ps-like style.  The fields PID, USER and COMMAND  are  similar
              to ps.  ACCESS shows how the process accesses the file.  Verbose mode will also show when a particular
              file is being access as a mount point, knfs export or swap file.  In this case kernel is shown instead
              of the PID.

       -V, --version
              Display version information.

       -4, --ipv4
              Search  only for IPv4 sockets.  This option must not be used with the -6 option and only has an effect
              with the tcp and udp namespaces.

       -6, --ipv6
              Search only for IPv6 sockets.  This option must not be used with the -4 option and only has an  effect
              with the tcp and udp namespaces.

       -      Reset all options and set the signal back to SIGKILL.

FILES
       /proc  location of the proc file system

EXAMPLES
       fuser -km /home
              kills all processes accessing the file system /home in any way.

       if fuser -s /dev/ttyS1; then :; else something; fi
              invokes something if no other process is using /dev/ttyS1.

       fuser telnet/tcp
              shows all processes at the (local) TELNET port.

RESTRICTIONS
       Processes accessing the same file or file system several times in the same way are only shown once.

       If the same object is specified several times on the command line, some of those entries may be ignored.

       fuser  may  only  be  able to gather partial information unless run with privileges.  As a consequence, files
       opened by processes belonging to other users may not be listed and executables may be  classified  as  mapped
       only.

       Installing  fuser  SUID  root will avoid problems associated with partial information, but may be undesirable
       for security and privacy reasons.

       udp and tcp name spaces, and UNIX domain sockets can't be searched with kernels older than 1.3.78.

       Accesses by the kernel are only shown with the -v option.

       The -k option only works on processes.  If the user is the kernel, fuser will print an advice,  but  take  no
       action beyond that.

BUGS
       fuser -m /dev/sgX will show (or kill with the -k flag) all processes, even if you don't have that device con‐
       figured.  There may be other devices it does this for too.

       fuser cannot report on any processes that it doesn't have permission to look at  the  file  descriptor  table
       for.  The most common time this problem occurs is when looking for TCP or UDP sockets when running fuser as a
       non-root user.  In this case fuser will report no access

       The mount -m option will match any file within the save device as the specified file, use the  -M  option  as
       well if you mean to specify only the mount point.

SEE ALSO
       kill(1), killall(1), lsof(8), pkill(1), ps(1), kill(2).



psmisc                                               2012-07-28                                             FUSER(1)
