GENCFU(1)                                          ICU 52.1 Manual                                         GENCFU(1)



NAME
       gencfu - Generates Unicode Confusable data files

SYNOPSIS
       gencfu [ -h, -?, --help ] [ -V, --version ] [ -c, --copyright ] [ -v, --verbose ] [ -d, --destdir destination
       ] [ -i, --icudatadir directory ] -r, --rules rule-file -w, --wsrules whole-script-rule-file  -o,  --out  out‐
       put-file

DESCRIPTION
       gencfu  reads  confusable character definitions in the input file, which are plain text files containing con‐
       fusable character definitions in the input format defined by Unicode UAX39 for the files confusables.txt  and
       confusablesWholeScript.txt.   This  source  (.txt) format is also accepted by ICU spoof detectors.  The files
       must be encoded in utf-8 format, with or without a BOM.  Normally the output data file has  the  .cfu  exten‐
       sion.

OPTIONS
       -h, -?, --help
              Print help about usage and exit.

       -V, --version
              Print the version of gencfu and exit.

       -c, --copyright
              Embeds the standard ICU copyright into the output-file.

       -v, --verbose
              Display extra informative messages during execution.

       -d, --destdir destination
              Set the destination directory of the output-file to destination.

       -i, --icudatadir directory
              Look  for any necessary ICU data files in directory.  For example, the file pnames.icu must be located
              when ICU's data is not built as a shared library.  The default ICU data directory is specified by  the
              environment variable ICU_DATA.  Most configurations of ICU do not require this argument.

       -r, --rules rule-file
              The source file to read.

       -w, --wsrules whole-script-rule-file
              The whole script source file to read.

       -o, --out output-file
              The output data file to write.

VERSION
       1.0

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2009 International Business Machines Corporation and others



ICU MANPAGE                                          24 May 2009                                           GENCFU(1)
