GENISOIMAGE(1)                                 General Commands Manual                                GENISOIMAGE(1)



NAME
       genisoimage - create ISO9660/Joliet/HFS filesystem with optional Rock Ridge attributes

SYNOPSIS
       genisoimage [options] [-o filename] pathspec [pathspec ...]

DESCRIPTION
       genisoimage is a pre-mastering program to generate ISO9660/Joliet/HFS hybrid filesystems.

       genisoimage  is  capable  of  generating the System Use Sharing Protocol records (SUSP) specified by the Rock
       Ridge Interchange Protocol.  This is used to further describe the files in the ISO9660 filesystem to  a  Unix
       host,  and provides information such as long filenames, UID/GID, POSIX permissions, symbolic links, and block
       and character device files.

       If Joliet or HFS hybrid command line options are specified, genisoimage will create the additional filesystem
       metadata needed for Joliet or HFS.  Otherwise genisoimage will generate a pure ISO9660 filesystem.

       genisoimage  can generate a true (or shared) HFS hybrid filesystem. The same files are seen as HFS files when
       accessed from a Macintosh and as ISO9660 files when accessed from other machines. HFS stands for Hierarchical
       File System and is the native filesystem used on Macintosh computers.

       As  an  alternative, genisoimage can generate the Apple Extensions to ISO9660 for each file. These extensions
       provide each file with CREATOR, TYPE and certain Finder flags when accessed from a  Macintosh.  See  the  HFS
       MACINTOSH FILE FORMATS section below.

       genisoimage takes a snapshot of a given directory tree, and generates a binary image which will correspond to
       an ISO9660 and/or HFS filesystem when written to a block device.

       Each file written to the ISO9660 filesystem must have a filename in the  8.3  format  (up  to  8  characters,
       period,  up  to 3 characters, all uppercase), even if Rock Ridge is in use.  This filename is used on systems
       that are not able to make use of the Rock Ridge extensions (such as MS-DOS), and each filename in each direc‐
       tory  must  be different from the other filenames in the same directory.  genisoimage generally tries to form
       correct names by forcing the Unix filename to uppercase and truncating as required,  but  often  this  yields
       unsatisfactory  results  when the truncated names are not all unique.  genisoimage assigns weightings to each
       filename, and if two names that are otherwise the same are found, the name with the lower priority is renamed
       to  include  a  3-digit number (guaranteed to be unique).  For example, the two files foo.bar and foo.bar.~1~
       could be rendered as FOO.BAR;1 and FOO000.BAR;1.

       When used with various HFS options, genisoimage will attempt  to  recognise  files  stored  in  a  number  of
       Apple/Unix file formats and will copy the data and resource forks as well as any relevant Finder information.
       See the HFS MACINTOSH FILE FORMATS section below for more about formats genisoimage supports.

       Note that genisoimage is not designed to communicate with the writer directly.  Most writers have proprietary
       command  sets  which  vary from one manufacturer to another, and you need a specialized tool to actually burn
       the disc.  wodim is one such tool.  The latest version of wodim is available from http://www.cdrkit.org/.

       pathspec is the path of the directory tree to be copied into the ISO9660 filesystem.  Multiple paths  can  be
       specified,  and  genisoimage  will  merge the files found in all of the specified path components to form the
       filesystem image.

       If the option -graft-points has been specified, it is possible to graft the paths at points  other  than  the
       root  directory,  and  it is possible to graft files or directories onto the cdrom image with names different
       than what they have in the source filesystem.  This is easiest to  illustrate  with  a  couple  of  examples.
       Let's start by assuming that a local file ../old.lis exists, and you wish to include it in the cdrom image.

              foo/bar/=../old.lis

       will include old.lis in the cdrom image at /foo/bar/old.lis, while

              foo/bar/xxx=../old.lis

       will  include  old.lis in the cdrom image at /foo/bar/xxx.  The same sort of syntax can be used with directo‐
       ries as well.  genisoimage will create any directories required such that the graft points exist on the cdrom
       image — the directories do not need to appear in one of the paths.  By default, any directories that are cre‐
       ated on the fly like this will have permissions 0555 and appear to be owned by the person  running  genisoim‐
       age.   If  you  wish  other permissions or owners of the intermediate directories, see -uid, -gid, -dir-mode,
       -file-mode and -new-dir-mode.

       genisoimage  will  also  run  on  Windows  machines  when  compiled  with  Cygnus'  cygwin  (available   from
       http://www.cygwin.com/).  Therefore most references in this man page to Unix can be replaced with Win32.

OPTIONS
       Several  options  can be specified as defaults in a .genisoimagerc configuration file, as well as on the com‐
       mand line.  If a parameter is specified in both places, the setting from  the  command  line  is  used.   For
       details on the format and possible locations of this file, see genisoimagerc(5).

       -abstract file
              Specifies  the  abstract  filename.   There  is  space  for  37 characters.  Equivalent to ABST in the
              .genisoimagerc file.

       -A application_id
              Specifies a text string that will be written into the volume header.  This should describe the  appli‐
              cation  that  will  be  on  the  disc.   There is space for 128 characters.  Equivalent to APPI in the
              .genisoimagerc file.

       -allow-limited-size
              When processing files larger than 2GiB which cannot be easily represented in ISO9660, add them with  a
              shrunk  visible  file  size  to  ISO9660 and with the correct visible file size to the UDF system. The
              result is an inconsistent filesystem and users need to make sure that they really use UDF rather  than
              ISO9660 driver to read a such disk. Implies enabling -udf.

       -allow-leading-dots

       -ldots Allow ISO9660 filenames to begin with a period.  Usually, a leading dot is replaced with an underscore
              in order to maintain MS-DOS compatibility.
              This violates the ISO9660 standard, but it happens to work on many systems.  Use with caution.

       -allow-lowercase
              This options allows lowercase characters to appear in ISO9660 filenames.
              This violates the ISO9660 standard, but it happens to work on some systems.  Use with caution.

       -allow-multidot
              This options allows more than one dot to appear in ISO9660 filenames.  A leading dot is  not  affected
              by this option, it may be allowed separately using -allow-leading-dots.
              This violates the ISO9660 standard, but it happens to work on many systems.  Use with caution.

       -biblio file
              Specifies  the  bibliographic  filename.  There is space for 37 characters.  Equivalent to BIBL in the
              .genisoimagerc file.

       -cache-inodes

       -no-cache-inodes
              Enable or disable caching inode and device numbers to find hard links to files.  If genisoimage  finds
              a  hard  link  (a  file with multiple names), the file will also be hard-linked on the CD, so the file
              contents only appear once.  This helps to save space.  -cache-inodes is default on Unix-like operating
              systems,  but -no-cache-inodes is default on some other systems such as Cygwin, because it is not safe
              to assume that inode numbers are unique on those systems.  (Some versions of Cygwin create fake  inode
              numbers  using  a  weak  hashing algorithm, which may produce duplicates.)  If two files have the same
              inode number but are not hard links to the same file, genisoimage -cache-inodes will not  behave  cor‐
              rectly.   -no-cache-inodes  is safe in all situations, but in that case genisoimage cannot detect hard
              links, so the resulting CD image may be larger than necessary.

       -alpha-boot alpha_boot_image
              Specifies the path and filename of the boot image to be used when making an Alpha/SRM bootable CD. The
              pathname must be relative to the source path specified to genisoimage.

       -hppa-bootloader hppa_bootloader_image
              Specifies  the  path  and  filename  of the boot image to be used when making an HPPA bootable CD. The
              pathname must be relative to the source path specified to genisoimage.  Other options are required, at
              the  very  least a kernel filename and a boot command line.  See the HPPA NOTES section below for more
              information.

       -hppa-cmdline hppa_boot_command_line
              Specifies the command line to be passed to the HPPA boot loader when making a  bootable  CD.  Separate
              the  parameters with spaces or commas. More options must be passed to genisoimage, at the very least a
              kernel filename and the boot loader filename.  See the HPPA NOTES section below for more information.

       -hppa-kernel-32 hppa_kernel_32

       -hppa-kernel-64 hppa_kernel_64
              Specifies the path and filename of the 32-bit and/or 64-bit kernel images to be used  when  making  an
              HPPA  bootable  CD. The pathnames must be relative to the source path specified to genisoimage.  Other
              options are required, at the very least the boot loader filename and the boot command line.   See  the
              HPPA NOTES section below for more information.

       -hppa-ramdisk hppa_ramdisk_image
              Specifies  the  path and filename of the ramdisk image to be used when making an HPPA bootable CD. The
              pathname must be relative to the source path specified to genisoimage.  This  parameter  is  optional.
              Other  options  are  required,  at the very least a kernel filename and the boot command line. See the
              HPPA NOTES section below for more information.

       -mips-boot mips_boot_image
              Specifies the path and filename of the boot image to  be  used  when  making  an  SGI/big-endian  MIPS
              bootable  CD.  The pathname must be relative to the source path specified to genisoimage.  This option
              may be specified several times, to store up to 15 boot images.

       -mipsel-boot mipsel_boot_image
              Specifies the path and filename of the boot image to be used when  making  an  DEC/little-endian  MIPS
              bootable CD. The pathname must be relative to the source path specified to genisoimage.

       -B img_sun4,img_sun4c,img_sun4m,img_sun4d,img_sun4e

       -sparc-boot img_sun4,img_sun4c,img_sun4m,img_sun4d,img_sun4e
              Specifies  a  comma-separated list of boot images that are needed to make a bootable CD for SPARC sys‐
              tems.  Partition 0 is used for the ISO9660 image, the first image file is mapped to partition 1.   The
              comma-separated list may have up to 7 fields, including empty fields.  This option is required to make
              a bootable CD for Sun SPARC systems.  If -B or -sparc-boot has been specified, the first sector of the
              resulting image will contain a Sun disk label. This disk label specifies slice 0 for the ISO9660 image
              and slices 1 to 7 for the boot images that have been specified with this option. Byte offsets  512  to
              8191  within  each of the additional boot images must contain a primary boot that works for the appro‐
              priate SPARC architecture. The rest of each of the images usually contains a UFS filesystem  used  for
              the primary kernel boot stage.

              The  implemented  boot  method  is  the  one found with SunOS 4.x and SunOS 5.x.  However, it does not
              depend on SunOS internals but only on properties of the Open Boot prom, so it should be usable for any
              OS for SPARC systems.  For more information also see the NOTES section below.

              If  the  special filename ...  is used, the actual and all following boot partitions are mapped to the
              previous partition. If genisoimage is called with -G image -B ...  all boot partitions are  mapped  to
              the partition that contains the ISO9660 filesystem image and the generic boot image that is located in
              the first 16 sectors of the disc is used for all architectures.

       -G generic_boot_image
              Specifies the path and filename of the generic boot image to be used when making  a  generic  bootable
              CD.   The boot image will be placed on the first 16 sectors of the CD, before the ISO9660 primary vol‐
              ume descriptor.  If this option is used together with -sparc-boot, the Sun disk label will overlay the
              first 512 bytes of the generic boot image.

       -b eltorito_boot_image
              Specifies  the path and filename of the boot image to be used when making an El Torito bootable CD for
              x86 PCs. The pathname must be relative to the source path specified to genisoimage.   This  option  is
              required  to  make  an El Torito bootable CD.  The boot image must be exactly 1200 kB, 1440 kB or 2880
              kB, and genisoimage will use this size when creating the output ISO9660 filesystem.  The PC BIOS  will
              use  the  image  to  emulate  a floppy disk, so the first 512-byte sector should contain PC boot code.
              This will work, for example, if the boot image is a LILO-based boot floppy.

              If the boot image  is  not  an  image  of  a  floppy,  you  need  to  add  either  -hard-disk-boot  or
              -no-emul-boot.  If the system should not boot off the emulated disk, use -no-boot.

              If -sort has not been specified, the boot images are sorted with low priority (+2) to the beginning of
              the medium.  If you don't like this, you need to specify a sort weight of 0 for the boot images.

       -eltorito-alt-boot
              Start with a new set of El Torito boot parameters.  Up to 63 El Torito boot entries may be stored on a
              single CD.

       -hard-disk-boot
              Specifies  that  the  boot image used to create El Torito bootable CDs is a hard disk image. The image
              must begin with a master boot record that contains a single partition.

       -no-emul-boot
              Specifies that the boot image used to create El Torito bootable CDs is a  "no  emulation"  image.  The
              system will load and execute this image without performing any disk emulation.

       -no-boot
              Specifies  that  the created El Torito CD should be marked as not bootable. The system will provide an
              emulated drive for the image, but will boot off a standard boot device.

       -boot-load-seg segment_address
              Specifies the load segment address of the boot image for no-emulation El Torito CDs.

       -boot-load-size load_sectors
              Specifies the number of "virtual" (512-byte) sectors to load in no-emulation mode.  The default is  to
              load the entire boot file.  Some BIOSes may have problems if this is not a multiple of 4.

       -boot-info-table
              Specifies that a 56-byte table with information of the CD-ROM layout will be patched in at offset 8 in
              the boot file.  If this option is given, the boot file is modified in the source filesystem, so make a
              copy of this file if it cannot be easily regenerated!  See the EL TORITO BOOT INFO TABLE section for a
              description of this table.

       -C last_sess_start,next_sess_start
              This option is needed to create a CD Extra or the image of a second session or a higher-level  session
              for  a multisession disc.  -C takes two numbers separated by a comma. The first is the first sector in
              the last session of the disc that should be appended to.  The second number  is  the  starting  sector
              number  of  the new session.  The correct numbers may be retrieved by calling wodim -msinfo ...  If -C
              is used in conjunction with -M, genisoimage will create a filesystem image that is intended  to  be  a
              continuation  of the previous session.  If -C is used without -M, genisoimage will create a filesystem
              image that is intended to be used for a second session on a CD Extra. This is a multisession  CD  that
              holds audio data in the first session and an ISO9660 filesystem in the second session.

       -c boot_catalog
              Specifies  the  path and filename of the boot catalog, which is required for an El Torito bootable CD.
              The pathname must be relative to the source path specified to genisoimage.  This file will be inserted
              into  the output tree and not created in the source filesystem, so be sure the specified filename does
              not conflict with an existing file, or it will be excluded. Usually a name like boot.catalog  is  cho‐
              sen.

              If  -sort  has  not been specified, the boot catalog sorted with low priority (+1) to the beginning of
              the medium.  If you don't like this, you need to specify a sort weight of 0 for the boot catalog.

       -check-oldnames
              Check all filenames imported from the old session for compliance with the ISO9660 file  naming  rules.
              Without  this  option,  only names longer than 31 characters are checked, as these files are a serious
              violation of the ISO9660 standard.

       -check-session file
              Check all old sessions for compliance with actual genisoimage ISO9660 file naming rules.   This  is  a
              high-level  option  that  combines  -M  file  -C 0,0 -check-oldnames.  For the parameter file, see the
              description of -M.

       -copyright file
              Specifies copyright information, typically a filename on the disc.  There is space for 37  characters.
              Equivalent to COPY in the .genisoimagerc file.

       -d     Do not append a period to files that do not have one.
              This violates the ISO9660 standard, but it happens to work on many systems.  Use with caution.

       -D     Do not use deep directory relocation, and instead just pack them in the way we see them.
              If  ISO9660:1999  has not been selected, this violates the ISO9660 standard, but it happens to work on
              many systems.  Use with caution.

       -dir-mode mode
              Overrides the mode of directories used to create the image to mode, specified as 4 digits  of  permis‐
              sion bits as in chmod(1).  This option automatically enables Rock Ridge extensions.

       -dvd-video
              Generate a DVD-Video compliant UDF filesystem. This is done by sorting the order of the content of the
              appropriate files and by adding padding between the files if needed.  Note that the sorting only works
              if the DVD-Video filenames include uppercase characters only.

              Note that in order to get a DVD-Video compliant filesystem image, you need to prepare a DVD-Video com‐
              pliant directory tree.  This requires a directory VIDEO_TS (all caps) in the  root  directory  of  the
              resulting  DVD,  and  usually  another directory AUDIO_TS.  VIDEO_TS needs to include all needed files
              (filenames must be all caps) for a compliant DVD-Video filesystem.

       -f     Follow symbolic links when generating the filesystem.  When this option is not in use, symbolic  links
              will be entered using Rock Ridge if enabled, otherwise they will be ignored.

       -file-mode mode
              Overrides the mode of regular files used to create the image to mode, specified as 4 digits of permis‐
              sion bits as in chmod(1).  This option automatically enables Rock Ridge extensions.

       -gid gid
              Overrides the group ID read from the source files to the value of gid.  Specifying this  option  auto‐
              matically enables Rock Ridge extensions.

       -gui   Switch  the  behaviour  for  a  GUI.  This  currently makes the output more verbose but may have other
              effects in the future.

       -graft-points
              Allow use of graft points for filenames. If this option is used, all filenames are checked  for  graft
              points.  The  filename  is  divided  at the first unescaped equal sign. All occurrences of `\' and `='
              characters must be escaped with `\' if -graft-points has been specified.

       -hide glob
              Hide any files matching glob, a shell wildcard pattern, from being seen in the ISO9660 or  Rock  Ridge
              directory.   glob  may  match any part of the filename or path.  If glob matches a directory, the con‐
              tents of that directory will be hidden.  In order to match a directory name, make  sure  the  pathname
              does  not  include a trailing `/' character.  All the hidden files will still be written to the output
              CD image file.  See also -hide-joliet, and README.hide.  This option may be used multiple times.

       -hide-list file
              A file containing a list of shell wildcards to be hidden.  See -hide.

       -hidden glob
              Add the hidden (existence) ISO9660 directory attribute for files  and  directories  matching  glob,  a
              shell  wildcard  pattern.   This  attribute will prevent the files from being shown by some MS-DOS and
              Windows commands.  glob may match any part of the filename or path.  In order  to  match  a  directory
              name,  make sure the pathname does not include a trailing `/' character.  This option may be used mul‐
              tiple times.

       -hidden-list file
              A file containing a list of shell wildcards to get the hidden attribute.  See -hidden.

       -hide-joliet glob
              Hide files and directories matching glob, a shell wildcard pattern, from  being  seen  in  the  Joliet
              directory.   glob  may  match any part of the filename or path.  If glob matches a directory, the con‐
              tents of that directory will be hidden.  In order to match a directory name, make  sure  the  pathname
              does  not  include a trailing `/' character.  All the hidden files will still be written to the output
              CD image file.  This option is usually used with -hide.  See also README.hide.   This  option  may  be
              used multiple times.

       -hide-joliet-list file
              A file containing a list of shell wildcards to be hidden from the Joliet tree.  See -hide-joliet.

       -hide-joliet-trans-tbl
              Hide  the  TRANS.TBL  files  from the Joliet tree.  These files usually don't make sense in the Joliet
              world as they list the real name and the ISO9660 name which may both  be  different  from  the  Joliet
              name.

       -hide-rr-moved
              Rename  the directory RR_MOVED to .rr_moved in the Rock Ridge tree.  It seems to be impossible to com‐
              pletely hide the RR_MOVED directory from the Rock Ridge tree.  This option only makes the visible tree
              less  confusing for people who don't know what this directory is for.  If you need to have no RR_MOVED
              directory at all, you should use -D.  Note that if -D has been specified, the resulting filesystem  is
              not ISO9660 level-1 compliant and will not be readable on MS-DOS.  See also the NOTES section.

       -input-charset charset
              Input  charset  that  defines  the characters used in local filenames.  To get a list of valid charset
              names, call genisoimage -input-charset help.  To get a 1:1 mapping, you may  use  default  as  charset
              name.  The  default  initial values are cp437 on DOS-based systems and iso8859-1 on all other systems.
              See the CHARACTER SETS section below for more details.

       -output-charset charset
              Output charset that defines the characters that will be used in Rock Ridge filenames.  Defaults to the
              input charset.  See CHARACTER SETS section below for more details.

       -iso-level level
              Set the ISO9660 conformance level. Valid numbers are 1 to 4.

              With level 1, files may only consist of one section and filenames are restricted to 8.3 characters.

              With level 2, files may only consist of one section.

              With level 3, no restrictions (other than ISO-9660:1988) do apply.

              With  all  ISO9660  levels from 1 to 3, all filenames are restricted to uppercase letters, numbers and
              underscores (_). Filenames are limited to 31 characters, directory nesting is limited to 8 levels, and
              pathnames are limited to 255 characters.

              Level  4  officially does not exist but genisoimage maps it to ISO-9660:1999, which is ISO9660 version
              2.

              With level 4, an enhanced volume descriptor with version number and file structure version number  set
              to 2 is emitted.  Directory nesting is not limited to 8 levels, there is no need for a file to contain
              a dot and the dot has no special meaning, filenames do not have version numbers, and filenames can  be
              up to 207 characters long, or 197 characters if Rock Ridge is used.

              When creating Version 2 images, genisoimage emits an enhanced volume descriptor, similar but not iden‐
              tical to a primary volume descriptor. Be careful not to use broken software  to  make  ISO9660  images
              bootable by assuming a second PVD copy and patching this putative PVD copy into an El Torito VD.

       -J     Generate  Joliet directory records in addition to regular ISO9660 filenames.  This is primarily useful
              when the discs are to be used on Windows machines.  Joliet filenames are specified in Unicode and each
              path component can be up to 64 Unicode characters long.  Note that Joliet is not a standard — only Mi‐
              crosoft Windows and Linux systems can read Joliet extensions.  For greater portability, consider using
              both Joliet and Rock Ridge extensions.

       -joliet-long
              Allow  Joliet  filenames  to  be  up to 103 Unicode characters, instead of 64.  This breaks the Joliet
              specification, but appears to work. Use with caution.

       -jcharset charset
              A combination of -J -input-charset charset.  See the CHARACTER SETS section below for more details.

       -l     Allow full 31-character filenames.  Normally the ISO9660 filename will be in an 8.3  format  which  is
              compatible  with MS-DOS, even though the ISO9660 standard allows filenames of up to 31 characters.  If
              you use this option, the disc may be difficult to use on a MS-DOS system, but will work on most  other
              systems.  Use with caution.

       -L     Outdated option; use -allow-leading-dots instead.

       -jigdo-jigdo jigdo_file
              Produce  a  jigdo  .jigdo  metadata file as well as the filesystem image.  See the JIGDO NOTES section
              below for more information.

       -jigdo-template template_file
              Produce a jigdo .template file as well as the filesystem image.  See the JIGDO NOTES section below for
              more information.

       -jigdo-min-file-size size
              Specify  the minimum size for a file to be listed in the .jigdo file. Default (and minimum allowed) is
              1KB. See the JIGDO NOTES section below for more information.

       -jigdo-force-md5 path
              Specify a file pattern where files must be contained in the externally-supplied MD5 list  as  supplied
              by -md5-list.  See the JIGDO NOTES section below for more information.

       -jigdo-exclude path
              Specify  a file pattern where files will not be listed in the .jigdo file. See the JIGDO NOTES section
              below for more information.

       -jigdo-map path
              Specify a pattern mapping for the jigdo file (e.g.  Debian=/mirror/debian).  See the JIGDO NOTES  sec‐
              tion below for more information.

       -md5-list md5_file
              Specify  a  file containing the MD5sums, sizes and pathnames of the files to be included in the .jigdo
              file. See the JIGDO NOTES section below for more information.

       -jigdo-template-compress algorithm
              Specify a compression algorithm to use for template date. gzip and bzip2 are currently supported,  and
              gzip is the default. See the JIGDO NOTES section below for more information.

       -log-file log_file
              Redirect all error, warning and informational messages to log_file instead of the standard error.

       -m glob
              Exclude  files  matching glob, a shell wildcard pattern, from being written to CD-ROM.  glob may match
              either the filename component or the full pathname.  This option may  be  used  multiple  times.   For
              example:

                   genisoimage -o rom -m '*.o' -m core -m foobar

              would exclude all files ending in `.o', or called core or foobar from the image.  Note that if you had
              a directory called foobar, it too (and of course all its descendants) would be excluded.

       -exclude-list file
              A file containing a list of shell wildcards to be excluded.  See -m.

       -max-iso9660-filenames
              Allow ISO9660 filenames to be up to 37 characters long.  This option enables  -N  as  the  extra  name
              space is taken from the space reserved for file version numbers.
              This  violates  the  ISO9660  standard, but it happens to work on many systems.  Although a conforming
              application needs to provide a buffer space of at least 37 characters, discs created with this  option
              may cause a buffer overflow in the reading operating system. Use with extreme care.

       -M path

       -M device

       -dev device
              Specifies  path  to existing ISO9660 image to be merged. The alternate form takes a SCSI device speci‐
              fier that uses the same syntax as the dev= parameter of wodim.  The output of genisoimage  will  be  a
              new session which should get written to the end of the image specified in -M.  Typically this requires
              multisession capability for the CD recorder used to write the image.  This option may only be used  in
              conjunction with -C.

       -N     Omit version numbers from ISO9660 filenames.
              This  violates the ISO9660 standard, but no one really uses the version numbers anyway.  Use with cau‐
              tion.

       -new-dir-mode mode
              Specify the mode, a 4-digit number as used in chmod(1), to use when creating new  directories  in  the
              filesystem image.  The default is 0555.

       -nobak

       -no-bak
              Exclude  backup  files files on the ISO9660 filesystem; that is, filenames that contain the characters
              `~' or `#' or end in .bak.  These are typically backup files for Unix text editors.

       -force-rr
              Do not use the automatic Rock Ridge attributes recognition  for  previous  sessions.   This  can  work
              around problems with images created by, e.g., NERO Burning ROM.

       -no-rr Do  not  use  the  Rock Ridge attributes from previous sessions.  This may help to avoid problems when
              genisoimage finds illegal Rock Ridge signatures on an old session.

       -no-split-symlink-components
              Don't split the symlink components, but begin a new Continuation Area (CE)  instead.  This  may  waste
              some space, but the SunOS 4.1.4 cdrom driver has a bug in reading split symlink components.

              It is questionable whether this option is useful nowadays.

       -no-split-symlink-fields
              Don't  split  the  symlink fields, but begin a new Continuation Area (CE) instead. This may waste some
              space, but the SunOS 4.1.4 and Solaris 2.5.1 cdrom driver have a bug in reading split  symlink  fields
              (a `/' can be dropped).

              It is questionable whether this option is useful nowadays.

       -o filename
              Specify  the output file for the the ISO9660 filesystem image.  This can be a disk file, a tape drive,
              or it can correspond directly to the device name of the optical disc writer.  If not specified, stdout
              is  used.  Note that the output can also be a block device for a regular disk partition, in which case
              the ISO9660 filesystem can be mounted normally to verify that it was generated correctly.

       -pad   Pad the end of the whole image by 150 sectors (300 kB).  This option is enabled by default.   If  used
              in  combination  with  -B,  padding is inserted between the ISO9660 partition and the boot partitions,
              such that the first boot partition starts on a sector number that is a multiple of 16.

              The padding is needed as many operating systems  (e.g.  Linux)  implement  read-ahead  bugs  in  their
              filesystem  I/O.  These  bugs result in read errors on files that are located near the end of a track,
              particularly if the disc is written in Track At Once mode, or where a CD audio track follows the  data
              track.

       -no-pad
              Do not pad the end by 150 sectors (300 kB) and do not make the the boot partitions start on a multiple
              of 16 sectors.

       -path-list file
              A file containing a list of pathspec directories and filenames to be added to the ISO9660  filesystem.
              This  list of pathspecs are processed after any that appear on the command line. If the argument is -,
              the list is read from the standard input.

       -P     Outdated option; use -publisher instead.

       -publisher publisher_id
              Specifies a text string that will be written into the volume header.  This should  describe  the  pub‐
              lisher of the CD-ROM, usually with a mailing address and phone number.  There is space for 128 charac‐
              ters.  Equivalent to PUBL in the .genisoimagerc file.

       -p preparer_id
              Specifies a text string that will be written into the volume header.  This should  describe  the  pre‐
              parer  of the CD-ROM, usually with a mailing address and phone number.  There is space for 128 charac‐
              ters.  Equivalent to PREP in the .genisoimagerc file.

       -print-size
              Print estimated filesystem size in multiples of the sector size (2048 bytes) and exit. This option  is
              needed  for  Disk  At Once mode and with some CD-R drives when piping directly into wodim, cases where
              wodim needs to know the size of the filesystem image in advance.  Old versions of mkisofs  wrote  this
              information  (among  other  information) to stderr.  As this turns out to be hard to parse, the number
              without any other information is now printed on stdout too.  If you  like  to  write  a  simple  shell
              script, redirect stderr and catch the number from stdout.  This may be done with:

                   cdblocks=` genisoimage -print-size -quiet ... `
                   genisoimage ... | wodim ... tsize=${cdblocks}s -

       -quiet This makes genisoimage even less verbose.  No progress output will be provided.

       -R     Generate  SUSP  and  RR  records  using  the  Rock Ridge protocol to further describe the files on the
              ISO9660 filesystem.

       -r     This is like the -R option, but file ownership and modes are set to more useful values.  The  uid  and
              gid  are  set  to zero, because they are usually only useful on the author's system, and not useful to
              the client.  All the file read bits are set true, so that files and directories are globally  readable
              on the client.  If any execute bit is set for a file, set all of the execute bits, so that executables
              are globally executable on the client.  If any search bit is set for  a  directory,  set  all  of  the
              search  bits,  so that directories are globally searchable on the client.  All write bits are cleared,
              because the filesystem will be mounted read-only in any case.  If any of the  special  mode  bits  are
              set,  clear them, because file locks are not useful on a read-only filesystem, and set-id bits are not
              desirable for uid 0 or gid 0.  When used on Win32, the execute bit is set on  all  files.  This  is  a
              result  of the lack of file permissions on Win32 and the Cygwin POSIX emulation layer.  See also -uid,
              -gid, -dir-mode, -file-mode and -new-dir-mode.

       -relaxed-filenames
              Allows ISO9660 filenames to include all 7-bit ASCII characters except lowercase letters.
              This violates the ISO9660 standard, but it happens to work on many systems.  Use with caution.

       -root dir
              Moves all files and directories into dir  in  the  image.  This  is  essentially  the  same  as  using
              -graft-points  and  adding  dir in front of every pathspec, but is easier to use.  dir may actually be
              several levels deep. It is created with the same permissions as other graft points.

       -old-root dir
              This option is necessary when writing a multisession image and the previous (or  even  older)  session
              was written with -root dir.  Using a directory name not found in the previous session causes genisoim‐
              age to abort with an error.  Without this option, genisoimage would not be  able  to  find  unmodified
              files and would be forced to write their data into the image once more.  -root and -old-root are meant
              to be used together to do incremental backups.  The initial session would e.g. use: genisoimage  -root
              backup_1  dirs.   The  next incremental backup with genisoimage -root backup_2 -old-root backup_1 dirs
              would take another snapshot of these directories. The first snapshot would be found in  backup_1,  the
              second  one  in  backup_2,  but only modified or new files need to be written into the second session.
              Without these options, new files would be added and old ones would be preserved. But old ones would be
              overwritten if the file was modified. Recovering the files by copying the whole directory back from CD
              would also restore files that were deleted intentionally. Accessing several older versions of  a  file
              requires support by the operating system to choose which sessions are to be mounted.

       -sort sort_file
              Sort file locations on the media. Sorting is controlled by a file that contains pairs of filenames and
              sorting offset weighting.  If the weighting is higher, the file will be located closer to  the  begin‐
              ning of the media, if the weighting is lower, the file will be located closer to the end of the media.
              There must be only one space or tabs character between the filename and the weight and the weight must
              be  the  last characters on a line. The filename is taken to include all the characters up to, but not
              including the last space or tab character on a line. This is to allow for space characters to  be  in,
              or  at the end of a filename.  This option does not sort the order of the filenames that appear in the
              ISO9660 directory. It sorts the order in which the file data is written to the CD image, which is use‐
              ful in order to optimize the data layout on a CD. See README.sort for more details.

       -sparc-boot img_sun4,img_sun4c,img_sun4m,img_sun4d,img_sun4e
              See -B above.

       -sparc-label label
              Set the Sun disk label name for the Sun disk label that is created with -sparc-boot.

       -split-output
              Split  the output image into several files of approximately 1 GB each.  This helps to create DVD-sized
              ISO9660 images on operating systems without large file support.  wodim will concatenate more than  one
              file  into a single track if writing to a DVD.  To make -split-output work, -o filename must be speci‐
              fied. The resulting output images will be named: filename_00, filename_01, filename_02....

       -stream-media-size #
              Select streaming operation and set the media size to # sectors.  This allows you to pipe the output of
              the  tar(1) program into genisoimage and to create an ISO9660 filesystem without the need of an inter‐
              mediate tar archive file.  If this option has been specified, genisoimage reads from stdin and creates
              a file with the name STREAM.IMG.  The maximum size of the file (with padding) is 200 sectors less than
              the specified media size. If -no-pad has been specified, the file size is 50  sectors  less  than  the
              specified media size.  If the file is smaller, genisoimage will write padding. This may take awhile.

              The  option  -stream-media-size creates simple ISO9660 filesystems only and may not used together with
              multisession or hybrid filesystem options.

       -stream-file-name name
              Reserved for future use.

       -sunx86-boot UFS_img,,,AUX1_img
              Specifies a comma-separated list of filesystem images that are  needed  to  make  a  bootable  CD  for
              Solaris x86 systems.

              Note  that partition 1 is used for the ISO9660 image and that partition 2 is the whole disk, so parti‐
              tion 1 and 2 may not be used by external partition data.  The first image file is mapped to  partition
              0.  There may be empty fields in the comma-separated list, and list entries for partition 1 and 2 must
              be empty.  The maximum number of supported partitions is 8 (although the Solaris x86  partition  table
              could support up to 16 partitions), so it is impossible to specify more than 6 partition images.  This
              option is required to make a bootable CD for Solaris x86 systems.

              If -sunx86-boot has been specified, the first sector of the resulting image will contain  a  PC  fdisk
              label  with  a Solaris type 0x82 fdisk partition that starts at offset 512 and spans the whole CD.  In
              addition, for the Solaris type 0x82 fdisk partition, there is a SVr4 disk label at offset 1024 in  the
              first sector of the CD.  This disk label specifies slice 0 for the first (usually UFS type) filesystem
              image that is used to boot the PC and slice 1 for the ISO9660 image.  Slice 2 spans the whole CD slice
              3 ... slice 7 may be used for additional filesystem images that have been specified with this option.

              A  Solaris  x86  boot CD uses a 1024 byte sized primary boot that uses the El-Torito no-emulation boot
              mode and a secondary generic boot that is in CD sectors 1..15.  For this  reason,  both  -b  bootimage
              -no-emul-boot and -G genboot must be specified.

       -sunx86-label label
              Set the SVr4 disk label name for the SVr4 disk label that is created with -sunx86-boot.

       -sysid ID
              Specifies  the system ID.  There is space for 32 characters.  Equivalent to SYSI in the .genisoimagerc
              file.

       -T     Generate a file TRANS.TBL in each directory on the CD-ROM, which can be used on non-Rock Ridge-capable
              systems  to  help establish the correct filenames.  There is also information present in the file that
              indicates the major and minor numbers for block and character devices, and each symlink has  the  name
              of the link file given.

       -table-name table_name
              Alternative  translation  table  filename (see above). Implies -T.  If you are creating a multisession
              image you must use the same name as in the previous session.

       -ucs-level level
              Set Unicode conformance level in the Joliet SVD. The default level is 3.  It may be set to 1..3  using
              this option.

       -udf   Include  UDF  filesystem support in the generated filesystem image.  UDF support is currently in alpha
              status and for this reason, it is not possible to create UDF-only images.   UDF  data  structures  are
              currently  coupled  to  the Joliet structures, so there are many pitfalls with the current implementa‐
              tion. There is no UID/GID support, there is no POSIX permission support, there is no support for  sym‐
              links.   Note  that UDF wastes the space from sector ~20 to sector 256 at the beginning of the disc in
              addition to the space needed for real UDF data structures.

       -uid uid
              Overrides the uid read from the source files to the value of uid.  Specifying  this  option  automati‐
              cally enables Rock Ridge extensions.

       -use-fileversion
              The  option  -use-fileversion  allows genisoimage to use file version numbers from the filesystem.  If
              the option is not specified, genisoimage creates a version number of 1 for all files.   File  versions
              are strings in the range ;1 to ;32767 This option is the default on VMS.

       -U     Allows  "untranslated" filenames, completely violating the ISO9660 standards described above.  Enables
              the following flags: -d -l -N -allow-leading-dots -relaxed-filenames -allow-lowercase  -allow-multidot
              -no-iso-translate.   Allows  more  than one `.' character in the filename, as well as mixed-case file‐
              names.  This is useful on HP-UX, where the built-in cdfs filesystem does not recognize any extensions.
              Use with extreme caution.

       -no-iso-translate
              Do  not  translate  the  characters  `#'  and  `~'  which are invalid for ISO9660 filenames.  Although
              invalid, these characters are often used by Microsoft systems.
              This violates the ISO9660 standard, but it happens to work on many systems.  Use with caution.

       -V volid
              Specifies the volume ID (volume name or label) to be written into the master block.   There  is  space
              for 32 characters.  Equivalent to VOLI in the .genisoimagerc file.  The volume ID is used as the mount
              point by the Solaris volume manager and as a label assigned to a disc on various other platforms  such
              as Windows and Apple Mac OS.

       -volset ID
              Specifies the volume set ID.  There is space for 128 characters.  Equivalent to VOLS in the .genisoim‐
              agerc file.

       -volset-size #
              Sets the volume set size to #.  The volume set size is the number of CDs that are in a CD volume  set.
              A volume set is a collection of one or more volumes, on which a set of files is recorded.

              Volume Sets are not intended to be used to create a set numbered CDs that are part of e.g. a Operation
              System installation set of CDs.  Volume Sets are rather used to record a big directory tree that would
              not fit on a single volume.  Each volume of a Volume Set contains a description of all the directories
              and files that are recorded on the volumes where the sequence numbers are less than, or equal to,  the
              assigned Volume Set Size of the current volume.

              genisoimage currently does not support a -volset-size that is larger than 1.

              The option -volset-size must be specified before -volset-seqno on each command line.

       -volset-seqno #
              Sets  the  volume set sequence number to #.  The volume set sequence number is the index number of the
              current CD in a CD set.  The option -volset-size must be specified before -volset-seqno on  each  com‐
              mand line.

       -v     Verbose execution. If given twice on the command line, extra debug information will be printed.

       -x glob
              Identical to -m glob.

       -z     Generate  special  RRIP  records for transparently compressed files.  This is only of use and interest
              for hosts that support transparent decompression, such as Linux 2.4.14 or later.  You must specify  -R
              or  -r  to  enable Rock Ridge, and generate compressed files using the mkzftree utility before running
              genisoimage.  Note that transparent compression is a nonstandard Rock Ridge extension.  The  resulting
              disks  are  only transparently readable if used on Linux.  On other operating systems you will need to
              call mkzftree by hand to decompress the files.

HFS OPTIONS
       -hfs   Create an ISO9660/HFS hybrid CD. This option should be used  in  conjunction  with  the  -map,  -magic
              and/or the various double dash options given below.

       -apple Create  an  ISO9660  CD  with Apple's extensions. Similar to -hfs, except that the Apple Extensions to
              ISO9660 are added instead of creating an HFS hybrid volume.  Former genisoimage versions  did  include
              Rock  Ridge  attributes  by  default if -apple was specified. This versions of genisoimage does not do
              this anymore. If you like to have Rock Ridge attributes, you need to specify this separately.

       -map mapping_file
              Use the mapping_file to set the CREATOR and TYPE information for a file based on the filename's exten‐
              sion. A filename is mapped only if it is not one of the know Apple/Unix file formats. See the HFS CRE‐
              ATOR/TYPE section below.

       -magic magic_file
              The CREATOR and TYPE information is set by using a file's magic number (usually the first few bytes of
              a file). The magic_file is only used if a file is not one of the known Apple/Unix file formats, or the
              filename extension has not been mapped using -map.  See the HFS CREATOR/TYPE section  below  for  more
              details.

       -hfs-creator creator
              Set  the default CREATOR for all files. Must be exactly 4 characters. See the HFS CREATOR/TYPE section
              below for more details.

       -hfs-type type
              Set the default TYPE for all files. Must be exactly 4 characters. See  the  HFS  CREATOR/TYPE  section
              below for more details.

       -probe Search  the  contents  of files for all the known Apple/Unix file formats.  See the HFS MACINTOSH FILE
              FORMATS section below for more about these formats.  However, the only way to check for MacBinary  and
              AppleSingle  files is to open and read them, so this option may increase processing time. It is better
              to use one or more double dash options given below if the Apple/Unix formats in use are known.

       -no-desktop
              Do not create (empty) Desktop files. New HFS Desktop files will be created when the CD is  used  on  a
              Macintosh  (and  stored  in  the System Folder).  By default, empty Desktop files are added to the HFS
              volume.

       -mac-name
              Use the HFS filename as the starting point for the ISO9660, Joliet and Rock Ridge filenames.  See  the
              HFS MACINTOSH FILENAMES section below for more information.

       -boot-hfs-file driver_file
              Installs the driver_file that may make the CD bootable on a Macintosh. See the HFS BOOT DRIVER section
              below. (Alpha).

       -part  Generate an HFS partition table. By default, no partition table is generated, but some older Macintosh
              CD-ROM drivers need an HFS partition table on the CD-ROM to be able to recognize a hybrid CD-ROM.

       -auto AutoStart_file
              Make  the  HFS  CD  use  the QuickTime 2.0 Autostart feature to launch an application or document. The
              given filename must be the name of a document or application located at the top level of the  CD.  The
              filename must be less than 12 characters. (Alpha).

       -cluster-size size
              Set  the  size  in  bytes of the cluster or allocation units of PC Exchange files. Implies --exchange.
              See the HFS MACINTOSH FILE FORMATS section below.

       -hide-hfs glob
              Hide glob, a shell wildcard pattern, from the HFS volume.  The file or directory will still  exist  in
              the  ISO9660 and/or Joliet directory.  glob may match any part of the filename.  Multiple globs may be
              excluded.  Example:

                   genisoimage -o rom -hfs -hide-hfs '*.o' -hide-hfs foobar

              would exclude all files ending in `.o' or called foobar from the HFS volume. Note that if  you  had  a
              directory  called  foobar, it too (and of course all its descendants) would be excluded.  The glob can
              also be a path name relative to the source directories given on the command line. Example:

                   genisoimage -o rom -hfs -hide-hfs src/html src

              would exclude just the file or directory called html from the src directory.  Any other file or direc‐
              tory called html in the tree will not be excluded.  Should be used with -hide and/or -hide-joliet.  In
              order to match a directory name, make sure the pattern does not include a trailing `/' character.  See
              README.hide for more details.

       -hide-hfs-list file
              Specify a file containing a list of wildcard patterns to be hidden as in -hide-hfs.

       -hfs-volid hfs_volid
              Volume  name  for  the HFS partition. This is the name that is assigned to the disc on a Macintosh and
              replaces the volid used with -V.

       -icon-position
              Use the icon position information, if it exists, from the Apple/Unix file.  The icons will  appear  in
              the same position as they would on a Macintosh desktop. Folder location and size on screen, its scroll
              positions, folder View (view as Icons, Small Icons, etc.) are also preserved.  (Alpha).

       -root-info file
              Set the location, size on screen, scroll positions, folder View etc. for the root  folder  of  an  HFS
              volume. See README.rootinfo for more information.  (Alpha)

       -prep-boot file
              PReP boot image file. Up to 4 are allowed. See README.prep_boot for more information.  (Alpha)

       -chrp-boot
              Add CHRP boot header.

       -input-hfs-charset charset
              Input charset that defines the characters used in HFS filenames when used with -mac-name.  The default
              charset is cp10000 (Mac Roman).  See the CHARACTER SETS and HFS MACINTOSH FILENAMES sections below for
              more details.

       -output-hfs-charset charset
              Output  charset  that  defines  the characters that will be used in the HFS filenames. Defaults to the
              input charset. See the CHARACTER SETS section below for more details.

       -hfs-unlock
              By default, genisoimage will create an HFS volume that is  locked.   This  option  leaves  the  volume
              unlocked so that other applications (e.g.  hfsutils) can modify the volume. See the HFS PROBLEMS/LIMI‐
              TATIONS section below for warnings about using this option.

       -hfs-bless folder_name
              "Bless" the given directory (folder). This is usually the System Folder and is used  in  creating  HFS
              bootable  CDs. The name of the directory must be the whole path name as genisoimage sees it.  E.g., if
              the given pathspec is ./cddata and the required folder is called System Folder, the whole path name is
              "/cddata/System Folder" (remember to use quotes if the name contains spaces).

       -hfs-parms parameters
              Override  certain  parameters used to create the HFS filesystem. Unlikely to be used in normal circum‐
              stances.  See the libhfs_iso/hybrid.h source file for details.

       --cap  Look for AUFS CAP Macintosh files. Search for CAP Apple/Unix file  formats  only.  Searching  for  the
              other possible Apple/Unix file formats is disabled, unless other double dash options are given.

       --netatalk
              Look for NETATALK Macintosh files

       --double
              Look for AppleDouble Macintosh files

       --ethershare
              Look for Helios EtherShare Macintosh files

       --ushare
              Look for IPT UShare Macintosh files

       --exchange
              Look for PC Exchange Macintosh files

       --sgi  Look for SGI Macintosh files

       --xinet
              Look for XINET Macintosh files

       --macbin
              Look for MacBinary Macintosh files

       --single
              Look for AppleSingle Macintosh files

       --dave Look for Thursby Software Systems DAVE Macintosh files

       --sfm  Look for Microsoft's Services for Macintosh files (NT only) (Alpha)

       --osx-double
              Look for Mac OS X AppleDouble Macintosh files

       --osx-hfs
              Look for Mac OS X HFS Macintosh files

CHARACTER SETS
       genisoimage  processes  filenames  in a POSIX-compliant way as strings of 8-bit characters.  To represent all
       codings for all languages, 8-bit characters are not sufficient.  Unicode or ISO-10646 define  character  cod‐
       ings that need at least 21 bits to represent all known languages. They may be represented with UTF-32, UTF-16
       or UTF-8 coding.  UTF-32 uses a plain 32-bit coding but seems to be uncommon.  UTF-16 is  used  by  Microsoft
       with  Win32  with  the disadvantage that 16-bit characters are not compliant with the POSIX filesystem inter‐
       face.

       Modern Unix operating systems may use UTF-8 coding for filenames.  Each 32-bit character  is  represented  by
       one  or more 8-bit characters.  If a character is coded in ISO-8859-1 (used in Central Europe and North Amer‐
       ica) is maps 1:1 to a UTF-32 or UTF-16 coded Unicode character.  If a character is coded in 7-Bit ASCII (used
       in USA and other countries with limited character set) is maps 1:1 to a UTF-32, UTF-16 or UTF-8 coded Unicode
       character.  Character codes that cannot be represented as a single byte in UTF-8 (if the value is > 0x7F) use
       escape sequences that map to more than one 8-bit character.

       If  all operating systems used UTF-8, genisoimage would not need to recode characters in filenames.  Unfortu‐
       nately, Apple uses completely nonstandard codings and Microsoft uses a Unicode coding that is not  compatible
       with the POSIX filename interface.

       For  all  non-UTF-8-coded  operating  systems,  the actual character that each byte represents depends on the
       character set or codepage (the name used by Microsoft) used by the local operating system — the characters in
       a character set will reflect the region or natural language set by the user.

       Usually  character codes 0x00-0x1f are control characters, codes 0x20-0x7f are the 7-bit ASCII characters and
       (on PCs and Macs) 0x80-0xff are used for other characters.

       As there are a lot more than 256 characters/symbols in use, only a small subset are represented in a  charac‐
       ter  set.  Therefore the same character code may represent a different character in different character sets.
       So a filename generated, say in central Europe, may not display the same character when viewed on  a  machine
       in, say eastern Europe.

       To  make matters more complicated, different operating systems use different character sets for the region or
       language. For example, the character code for `é' (small e with acute accent) may be character code 0x82 on a
       PC, code 0x8e on a Macintosh, code 0xe9 on a Unix system in western Europe, and code 0x000e9 in Unicode.

       As  long as not all operating systems and applications use the same character set as the basis for filenames,
       it may be necessary to specify which character set your filenames use in and which character  set  the  file‐
       names should appear on the CD.

       There are four options to specify the character sets you want to use:

       -input-charset
              Defines  the  local  character  set you are using on your host machine.  Any character set conversions
              that take place will use this character set as the starting point. The default  input  character  sets
              are  cp437  on  MS-DOS-based  systems and iso8859-1 on all other systems.  If -J is given, the Unicode
              equivalents of the input character set will be used in the Joliet directory.  -jcharset is the same as
              -input-charset -J.

       -output-charset
              Defines  the character set that will be used with for the Rock Ridge names on the CD.  Defaults to the
              input character set.

       -input-hfs-charset
              Defines the HFS character set used for HFS filenames decoded from any of the various  Apple/Unix  file
              formats.  Only useful when used with -mac-name.  See the HFS MACINTOSH FILENAMES for more information.
              Defaults to cp10000 (Mac Roman).

       -output-hfs-charset
              Defines the HFS character set used to create HFS filenames from the input character  set  in  use.  In
              most  cases  this will be from the character set given with -input-charset.  Defaults to the input HFS
              character set.

       There are a number of character sets built in to genisoimage.  To get a  listing,  use  -input-charset  help.
       This  list  doesn't  include  the charset derived from the current locale, if genisoimage is built with iconv
       support.

       Additional character sets can be read from file for any of the character set options by giving a filename  as
       the  argument to the options. The given file will only be read if its name does not match one of the built-in
       character sets.

       The format of the character set files is the  same  as  the  mapping  files  available  from  http://www.uni‐
       code.org/Public/MAPPINGS.  This format is:

              Column #1 is the input byte code (in hex as 0xXX)
              Column #2 is the Unicode (in hex as 0xXXXX)
              The rest of the line is ignored.

       Any blank line, line without two (or more) columns in the above format or comments lines (starting with the #
       character) are ignored without any warnings. Any missing input code is mapped to Unicode character 0x0000.

       Note that, while UTF-8 is supported, other Unicode encodings such as UCS-2/UTF-16 and UCS-4/UTF-32  are  not,
       as POSIX operating systems cannot handle them natively.

       A 1:1 character set mapping can be defined by using the keyword default as the argument to any of the charac‐
       ter set options. This is the behaviour of old versions of mkisofs.

       The ISO9660 filenames generated from the input filenames are not converted from the input character set.  The
       ISO9660 character set is a very limited subset of the ASCII characters, so any conversion would be pointless.

       Any character that genisoimage cannot convert will be replaced with a `_' character.

HFS CREATOR/TYPE
       A  Macintosh  file has two properties associated with it which define which application created the file, the
       CREATOR and what data the file contains, the TYPE.  Both are (exactly) 4 letter strings. Usually this  allows
       a  Macintosh user to double-click on a file and launch the correct application etc. The CREATOR and TYPE of a
       particular file can be found by using something like ResEdit (or similar) on a Macintosh.

       The CREATOR and TYPE information is stored in all the various Apple/Unix encoded files.  For other  files  it
       is  possible to base the CREATOR and TYPE on the filename's extension using a mapping file (with -map) and/or
       using the magic number (usually a signature in the first few bytes) of a file (with -magic).  If  both  these
       options are given, their order on the command line is significant.  If -map is given first, a filename exten‐
       sion match is attempted before a magic number match. However, if -magic is given first, a magic number  match
       is attempted before a filename extension match.

       If  a  mapping  or magic file is not used, or no match is found, the default CREATOR and TYPE for all regular
       files can be set by using entries in the .genisoimagerc file or using -hfs-creator and/or  -hfs-type,  other‐
       wise the default CREATOR and TYPE are Unix and TEXT.

       The  format  of  the mapping file is the same afpfile format as used by aufs.  This file has five columns for
       the extension, file translation, CREATOR, TYPE and Comment.  Lines starting with the `#' character  are  com‐
       ment lines and are ignored. An example file would be like:

       # Example filename mapping file
       #
       # EXTN   XLate   CREATOR   TYPE     Comment
       .tif     Raw     '8BIM'    'TIFF'   "Photoshop TIFF image"
       .hqx     Ascii   'BnHq'    'TEXT'   "BinHex file"
       .doc     Raw     'MSWD'    'WDBN'   "Word file"
       .mov     Raw     'TVOD'    'MooV'   "QuickTime Movie"
       *        Ascii   'ttxt'    'TEXT'   "Text file"

       Where:

              The  first  column  EXTN defines the Unix filename extension to be mapped. The default mapping for any
              filename extension that doesn't match is defined with the `*' character.

              The Xlate column defines the type of text translation between  the  Unix  and  Macintosh  file  it  is
              ignored  by  genisoimage,  but  is  kept to be compatible with aufs(1).  Although genisoimage does not
              alter the contents of a file, if a binary file has its TYPE set as TEXT, it may be read incorrectly on
              a Macintosh. Therefore a better choice for the default TYPE may be ????.

              The CREATOR and TYPE keywords must be 4 characters long and enclosed in single quotes.

              The  comment field is enclosed in double quotes — it is ignored by genisoimage, but is kept to be com‐
              patible with aufs.

       The format of the magic file is almost identical to the magic(5) file used by the file(1) command.

       This file has four tab-separated columns for the byte offset, type, test and message.   Lines  starting  with
       the `#' character are comment lines and are ignored. An example file would be like:

       # Example magic file
       #
       # off   type      test       message
       0       string    GIF8       8BIM GIFf  GIF image
       0       beshort   0xffd8     8BIM JPEG  image data
       0       string    SIT!       SIT! SIT!  StuffIt Archive
       0       string    \037\235   LZIV ZIVU  standard Unix compress
       0       string    \037\213   GNUz ZIVU  gzip compressed data
       0       string    %!         ASPS TEXT  Postscript
       0       string    \004%!     ASPS TEXT  PC Postscript with a ^D to start
       4       string    moov       txtt MooV  QuickTime movie file (moov)
       4       string    mdat       txtt MooV  QuickTime movie file (mdat)

       The  format  of  the  file  is described in magic(5).  The only difference here is that for each entry in the
       magic file, the message for the initial offset must be be 4 characters for the CREATOR followed by 4  charac‐
       ters  for  the  TYPE  —  white space is optional between them. Any other characters on this line are ignored.
       Continuation lines (starting with a `>') are also ignored, i.e., only the initial offset lines are used.

       Using -magic may significantly increase processing time as each file has to opened and read to find its magic
       number.

       In summary, for all files, the default CREATOR is Unix and the default TYPE is TEXT.  These can be changed by
       using entries in the .genisoimagerc file or by using -hfs-creator and/or -hfs-type.

       If the a file is in one of the known Apple/Unix formats (and the format has been selected), the  CREATOR  and
       TYPE are taken from the values stored in the Apple/Unix file.

       Other  files  can  have  their CREATOR and TYPE set from their filename extension (with -map), or their magic
       number (with -magic).  If the default match is used in the mapping file, these values  override  the  default
       CREATOR and TYPE.

       A full CREATOR/TYPE database can be found at http://www.angelfire.com/il/szekely/.

HFS MACINTOSH FILE FORMATS
       Macintosh  files have two parts called the Data and Resource fork.  Either may be empty. Unix (and many other
       OSs) can only cope with files having one part (or fork). To add to this, Macintosh files  have  a  number  of
       attributes  associated  with them — probably the most important are the TYPE and CREATOR.  Again, Unix has no
       concept of these types of attributes.

       E.g., a Macintosh file may be a JPEG image where the image is stored in the Data fork and a desktop thumbnail
       stored in the Resource fork. It is usually the information in the data fork that is useful across platforms.

       Therefore  to  store  a Macintosh file on a Unix filesystem, a way has to be found to cope with the two forks
       and the extra attributes (which are referred to as the Finder info).   Unfortunately,  it  seems  that  every
       software package that stores Macintosh files on Unix has chosen a completely different storage method.

       The Apple/Unix formats that genisoimage (partially) supports are:

       CAP AUFS format
              Data  fork  stored in a file. Resource fork in subdirectory .resource with same filename as data fork.
              Finder info in subdirectory .finderinfo with same filename.

       AppleDouble/Netatalk
              Data fork stored in a file. Resource fork stored in a file with same name prefixed  with  `%'.  Finder
              info  also  stored  in same `%' file. Netatalk uses the same format, but the resource fork/Finder info
              stored in subdirectory .AppleDouble with same filename as data fork.

       AppleSingle
              Data structures similar to above, except both forks and Finder info are stored in one file.

       Helios EtherShare
              Data fork stored in a file.  Resource fork and Finder info together in subdirectory  .rsrc  with  same
              filename as data fork.

       IPT UShare
              Like the EtherShare format, but the Finder info is stored slightly differently.

       MacBinary
              Both forks and Finder info stored in one file.

       Apple PC Exchange
              Used  by  Macintoshes  to  store Apple files on DOS (FAT) disks.  Data fork stored in a file. Resource
              fork in subdirectory resource.frk (or RESOURCE.FRK).  Finder info as one record in file finder.dat (or
              FINDER.DAT).  Separate finder.dat for each data fork directory.

              Note: genisoimage needs to know the native FAT cluster size of the disk that the PC Exchange files are
              on (or have been copied from). This size is given by -cluster-size.  The cluster  or  allocation  size
              can be found by using the DOS utility chkdsk.

              May  not  work with PC Exchange v2.2 or higher files (available with MacOS 8.1).  DOS media containing
              PC Exchange files should be mounted as type msdos (not vfat) when using Linux.

       SGI/XINET
              Used by SGI machines when they mount HFS disks. Data fork stored in a file.  Resource fork  in  subdi‐
              rectory  .HSResource  with  same  filename.  Finder info as one record in file .HSancillary.  Separate
              .HSancillary for each data fork directory.

       Thursby Software Systems DAVE
              Allows Macintoshes to store Apple files on SMB servers.  Data fork stored in a file. Resource fork  in
              subdirectory resource.frk.  Uses the AppleDouble format to store resource fork.

       Services for Macintosh
              Format  of  files stored by NT Servers on NTFS filesystems. Data fork is stored as filename.  Resource
              fork stored as a NTFS stream called filename:AFP_Resource.  The Finder info is stored as a NTFS stream
              called filename:Afp_AfpInfo.  NTFS streams are normally invisible to the user.

              Warning: genisoimage only partially supports the SFM format. If an HFS file or folder stored on the NT
              server contains an illegal NT character in its name, NT converts these characters to Private Use  Uni‐
              code  characters.  The characters are: " * / < > ? \ | and a space or period if it is the last charac‐
              ter of the filename, character codes 0x01 to 0x1f (control characters) and Apple's apple logo.

              Unfortunately, these private Unicode characters are not readable by  the  genisoimage  NT  executable.
              Therefore  any file or directory name containing these characters will be ignored — including the con‐
              tents of any such directory.

       Mac OS X AppleDouble
              When HFS/HFS+ files are copied or saved by Mac OS X on to a non-HFS filesystem (e.g. UFS,  NFS  etc.),
              the  files  are  stored  in AppleDouble format.  Data fork stored in a file. Resource fork stored in a
              file with same name prefixed with `._'. Finder info also stored in same `._' file.

       Mac OS X HFS (Alpha)
              Not really an Apple/Unix encoding, but actual HFS/HFS+ files on a Mac OS X system. Data fork stored in
              a  file.  Resource  fork stored in a pseudo file with the same name with the suffix /rsrc.  The Finder
              info is only available via a Mac OS X library call.

              See also README.macosx.

              Only works when used on Mac OS X.

              If a file is found with a zero length resource fork and empty finderinfo, it is assumed  not  to  have
              any Apple/Unix encoding — therefore a TYPE and CREATOR can be set using other methods.

       genisoimage  will attempt to set the CREATOR, TYPE, date and possibly other flags from the finder info. Addi‐
       tionally, if it exists, the Macintosh filename is set from the finder info, otherwise the Macintosh  name  is
       based on the Unix filename — see the HFS MACINTOSH FILENAMES section below.

       When  using  -apple,  the TYPE and CREATOR are stored in the optional System Use or SUSP field in the ISO9660
       Directory Record — in much the same way as the Rock Ridge attributes are. In fact  to  make  life  easy,  the
       Apple  extensions  are  added  at the beginning of the existing Rock Ridge attributes (i.e., to get the Apple
       extensions you get the Rock Ridge extensions as well).

       The Apple extensions require the resource fork to be stored as an ISO9660 associated file. This is just  like
       any normal file stored in the ISO9660 filesystem except that the associated file flag is set in the Directory
       Record (bit 2). This file has the same name as the data fork (the file seen by non-Apple  machines).  Associ‐
       ated files are normally ignored by other OSs

       When  using  -hfs,  the  TYPE and CREATOR plus other finder info, are stored in a separate HFS directory, not
       visible on the ISO9660 volume. The HFS directory references the same data and resource fork  files  described
       above.

       In  most cases, it is better to use -hfs instead of -apple, as the latter imposes the limited ISO9660 charac‐
       ters allowed in filenames. However, the Apple extensions do give the advantage that the files are  packed  on
       the disk more efficiently and it may be possible to fit more files on a CD.

HFS MACINTOSH FILENAMES
       Where  possible,  the HFS filename that is stored with an Apple/Unix file is used for the HFS part of the CD.
       However, not all the Apple/Unix encodings store the HFS filename with the finderinfo.  In  these  cases,  the
       Unix  filename  is used — with escaped special characters. Special characters include `/' and characters with
       codes over 127.

       AUFS escapes these characters by using `:' followed by the character code as two  hex  digits.  Netatalk  and
       EtherShare have a similar scheme, but uses `%' instead of a `:'.

       If genisoimage cannot find an HFS filename, it uses the Unix name, with any %xx or :xx characters (xx are two
       hex digits) converted to a single character code.  If xx are not hex  digits  ([0-9a-fA-F]),  they  are  left
       alone  —  although any remaining `:' is converted to `%', as `:' is the HFS directory separator. Care must be
       taken, as an ordinary Unix file with %xx or :xx will also be converted. e.g.

       This:2fFile   converted to This/File

       This:File     converted to This%File

       This:t7File   converted to This%t7File

       Although HFS filenames appear to support uppercase and lowercase letters, the filesystem is case-insensitive,
       i.e.,  the  filenames  aBc  and  AbC  are the same. If a file is found in a directory with the same HFS name,
       genisoimage will attempt to make a unique name by adding `_' characters to one of the filenames.

       If an HFS filename exists for a file, genisoimage can use this name as the starting point  for  the  ISO9660,
       Joliet  and Rock Ridge filenames using -mac-name.  Normal Unix files without an HFS name will still use their
       Unix name.  e.g.

       If a MacBinary (or PC Exchange) file is stored as someimage.gif.bin on the Unix filesystem,  but  contains  a
       HFS  file  called  someimage.gif,  this  is the name that would appear on the HFS part of the CD. However, as
       genisoimage uses the Unix name as the starting point for the other names, the  ISO9660  name  generated  will
       probably  be SOMEIMAG.BIN and the Joliet/Rock Ridge would be someimage.gif.bin.  This option will use the HFS
       filename as the starting point and the ISO9660 name will probably be SOMEIMAG.GIF and the  Joliet/Rock  Ridge
       would be someimage.gif.

       -mac-name  will not currently work with -T — the Unix name will be used in the TRANS.TBL file, not the Macin‐
       tosh name.

       The character set used to convert any HFS filename to a Joliet/Rock Ridge filename defaults to  cp10000  (Mac
       Roman).  The character set used can be specified using -input-hfs-charset.  Other built-in HFS character sets
       are: cp10006 (MacGreek), cp10007 (MacCyrillic), cp10029 (MacLatin2), cp10079  (MacIcelandandic)  and  cp10081
       (MacTurkish).

       Note:  the  character  codes used by HFS filenames taken from the various Apple/Unix formats will not be con‐
       verted as they are assumed to be in the correct Apple character set. Only the Joliet/Rock Ridge names derived
       from the HFS filenames will be converted.

       The  existing  genisoimage  code will filter out any illegal characters for the ISO9660 and Joliet filenames,
       but as genisoimage expects to be dealing directly with Unix names, it leaves the Rock Ridge names as is.  But
       as `/' is a legal HFS filename character, -mac-name converts `/' to a `_' in Rock Ridge filenames.

       If  the  Apple  extensions are used, only the ISO9660 filenames will appear on the Macintosh. However, as the
       Macintosh ISO9660 drivers can use Level 2 filenames, you can use options like -allow-multidot  without  prob‐
       lems  on  a  Macintosh  —  still  take  care  over the names, for example this.file.name will be converted to
       THIS.FILE i.e. only have one `.', also filename abcdefgh will be seen as ABCDEFGH but abcdefghi will be  seen
       as  ABCDEFGHI.  i.e. with a `.' at the end — don't know if this is a Macintosh problem or a genisoimage/mkhy‐
       brid problem. All filenames will be in uppercase when viewed on a Macintosh. Of course,  DOS/Win3.X  machines
       will not be able to see Level 2 filenames...

HFS CUSTOM VOLUME/FOLDER ICONS
       To  give  a  HFS CD a custom icon, make sure the root (top level) folder includes a standard Macintosh volume
       icon file. To give a volume a custom icon on a Macintosh, an icon has to be pasted over the volume's icon  in
       the  "Get  Info" box of the volume. This creates an invisible file called Icon\r (`\r' is the carriage return
       character) in the root folder.

       A custom folder icon is very similar — an invisible file called Icon\r exists in the folder itself.

       Probably the easiest way to create a custom icon that genisoimage can use is to format  a  blank  HFS  floppy
       disk  on  a  Mac and paste an icon to its "Get Info" box. If using Linux with the HFS module installed, mount
       the floppy:

              mount -t hfs /dev/fd0 /mnt/floppy

       The floppy will be mounted as a CAP filesystem by default.  Then run genisoimage using something like:

              genisoimage --cap -o output source_dir /mnt/floppy

       If you are not using Linux, you can use hfsutils to copy the icon file from the floppy.  However, care has to
       be taken, as the icon file contains a control character.  For example:

              hmount /dev/fd0
              hdir -a
              hcopy -m Icon^V^M icon_dir/icon

       Where `^V^M' is control-V followed by control-M. Then run genisoimage by using something like:

              genisoimage --macbin -o output source_dir icon_dir

       The  procedure  for creating/using custom folder icons is very similar — paste an icon to folder's "Get Info"
       box and transfer the resulting Icon\r file to the relevant directory in the genisoimage source tree.

       You may want to hide the icon files from the ISO9660 and Joliet trees.

       To  give  a  custom  icon  to   a   Joliet   CD,   follow   the   instructions   found   at   http://www.cdr‐
       faq.org/faq03.html#S3-21-1.

HFS BOOT DRIVER
       It may be possible to make the hybrid CD bootable on a Macintosh.

       A bootable HFS CD requires an Apple CD-ROM (or compatible) driver, a bootable HFS partition and the necessary
       System, Finder, etc. files.

       A driver can be obtained from any other Macintosh bootable CD-ROM using the apple_driver utility.  This  file
       can then be used with -boot-hfs-file.

       The  HFS  partition  (i.e.  the  hybrid  disk  in our case) must contain a suitable System Folder, again from
       another CD-ROM or disk.

       For a partition to be bootable, it must have its boot block set. The boot block is in the first two blocks of
       a  partition.  For  a non-bootable partition the boot block is full of zeros. Normally, when a System file is
       copied to partition on a Macintosh disk, the boot block is filled with a number of required settings — unfor‐
       tunately I don't know the full spec for the boot block, so I'm guessing that the following will work.

       Therefore, the utility apple_driver also extracts the boot block from the first HFS partition it finds on the
       given CD-ROM and this is used for the HFS partition created by genisoimage.

       Please note: By using a driver from an Apple CD and copying Apple software to your CD, you become  liable  to
       obey Apple Computer, Inc. Software License Agreements.

EL TORITO BOOT INFORMATION TABLE
       When  -boot-info-table is given, genisoimage will modify the boot file specified by -b by inserting a 56-byte
       boot information table at offset 8 in the file.  This modification is done in the source filesystem, so  make
       sure  you use a copy if this file is not easily recreated!  This file contains pointers which may not be eas‐
       ily or reliably obtained at boot time.

       The format of this table is as follows; all integers are in section 7.3.1 ("little endian") format.

         Offset    Name           Size      Meaning
          8        bi_pvd         4 bytes   LBA of primary volume descriptor
         12        bi_file        4 bytes   LBA of boot file
         16        bi_length      4 bytes   Boot file length in bytes
         20        bi_csum        4 bytes   32-bit checksum
         24        bi_reserved    40 bytes  Reserved

              The 32-bit checksum is the sum of all the 32-bit words in the boot file starting at  byte  offset  64.
              All linear block addresses (LBAs) are given in CD sectors (normally 2048 bytes).

HPPA NOTES
       To  make a bootable CD for HPPA, at the very least a boot loader file (-hppa-bootloader), a kernel image file
       (32-bit, 64-bit, or both, depending on hardware) and a boot command line (-hppa-cmdline) must  be  specified.
       Some  systems can boot either a 32- or a 64-bit kernel, and the firmware will choose one if both are present.
       Optionally, a ramdisk can be used for the root filesystem using -hppa-cmdline.

JIGDO NOTES
       Jigdo  is  a  tool  to  help  in  the  distribution  of  large  files   like   CD   and   DVD   images;   see
       http://atterer.org/jigdo/  for more details.  Debian CDs and DVD ISO images are published on the web in jigdo
       format to allow end users to download them more efficiently.

       To create jigdo and template files alongside the ISO image from genisoimage, you must first generate  a  list
       of the files that will be used, in the following format:

         MD5sum   File size  Path
         32 chars 12 chars   to end of line

       The  MD5sum must be written in standard hexadecimal notation, the file size must list the size of the file in
       bytes, and the path must list the absolute path to the file. For example:

       00006dcd58ff0756c36d2efae21be376         14736  /mirror/debian/file1
       000635c69b254a1be8badcec3a8d05c1        211822  /mirror/debian/file2
       00083436a3899a09633fc1026ef1e66e         22762  /mirror/debian/file3

       Once you have this file, call genisoimage with all of your normal command-line parameters. Specify the output
       filenames  for  the jigdo and template files using -jigdo-jigdo and -jigdo-template, and pass in the location
       of your MD5 list with -md5-list.

       If there are files that you do NOT want to be added into the jigdo file (e.g. if they are  likely  to  change
       often),  specify  them using -jigdo-exclude. If you want to verify some of the files as they are written into
       the image, specify them using -jigdo-force-md5. If any files don't match, genisoimage will then abort.   Both
       of  these options take regular expressions as input. It is possible to restrict the set of files that will be
       used further based on size — use the -jigdo-min-file-size option.

       Finally, the jigdo code needs to know how to map the files it is given  onto  a  mirror-style  configuration.
       Specify  how  to  map paths using -jigdo-map.  Using Debian=/mirror/debian will cause all paths starting with
       /mirror/debian to be mapped to Debian:<file> in the output jigdo file.

EXAMPLES
       To create a vanilla ISO9660 filesystem image in the file cd.iso, where the directory cd_dir will  become  the
       root directory of the CD, call:

              % genisoimage -o cd.iso cd_dir

       To create a CD with Rock Ridge extensions of the source directory cd_dir:

              % genisoimage -o cd.iso -R cd_dir

       To  create  a CD with Rock Ridge extensions of the source directory cd_dir where all files have at least read
       permission and all files are owned by root, call:

              % genisoimage -o cd.iso -r cd_dir

       To write a tar archive directly to a CD that will later contain a simple ISO9660 filesystem with the tar  ar‐
       chive call:

              % tar cf - . | genisoimage -stream-media-size 333000 | \
                   wodim dev=b,t,l -dao tsize=333000s -

       To create a HFS hybrid CD with the Joliet and Rock Ridge extensions of the source directory cd_dir:

              % genisoimage -o cd.iso -R -J -hfs cd_dir

       To create a HFS hybrid CD from the source directory cd_dir that contains Netatalk Apple/Unix files:

              % genisoimage -o cd.iso --netatalk cd_dir

       To  create a HFS hybrid CD from the source directory cd_dir, giving all files CREATOR and TYPES based on just
       their filename extensions listed in the file "mapping".:

              % genisoimage -o cd.iso -map mapping cd_dir

       To create a CD with the Apple Extensions to ISO9660, from the  source  directories  cd_dir  and  another_dir.
       Files  in all the known Apple/Unix format are decoded and any other files are given CREATOR and TYPE based on
       their magic number given in the file magic:

              % genisoimage -o cd.iso -apple -magic magic -probe \
                      cd_dir another_dir

       The following example puts different files on the CD that all have the name README, but have  different  con‐
       tents when seen as a ISO9660/Rock Ridge, Joliet or HFS CD.

       Current directory contains:

              % ls -F
              README.hfs     README.joliet  README.Unix    cd_dir/

       The following command puts the contents of the directory cd_dir on the CD along with the three README files —
       but only one will be seen from each of the three filesystems:

              % genisoimage -o cd.iso -hfs -J -r -graft-points \
                      -hide README.hfs -hide README.joliet \
                      -hide-joliet README.hfs -hide-joliet README.Unix \
                      -hide-hfs README.joliet -hide-hfs README.Unix \
                      README=README.hfs README=README.joliet \
                      README=README.Unix cd_dir

       i.e. the file README.hfs will be seen as README on the HFS CD and the other two README files will be  hidden.
       Similarly for the Joliet and ISO9660/Rock Ridge CD.

       There are probably all sorts of strange results possible with combinations of the hide options ...

NOTES
       genisoimage  may  safely be installed suid root. This may be needed to allow genisoimage to read the previous
       session when creating a multisession image.

       If genisoimage is creating a filesystem image with Rock Ridge attributes and the directory nesting  level  of
       the  source  directory  tree  is  too  much for ISO9660, genisoimage will do deep directory relocation.  This
       results in a directory called RR_MOVED in the root directory of the CD. You cannot avoid this directory.

       Many boot code options for different platforms are mutualy exclusive because the boot blocks cannot  coexist,
       ie.  different  platforms  share  the  same  data locations in the image. See http://lists.debian.org/debian-
       cd/2006/12/msg00109.html for details.

BUGS
       Any files that have hard links to files not in the tree being copied to the ISO9660 filesystem will  have  an
       incorrect file reference count.

       Does  not  check  for SUSP record(s) in `.' entry of the root directory to verify the existence of Rock Ridge
       enhancements.  This problem is present when reading old sessions while adding data in multisession mode.

       Does not properly read relocated directories in multisession mode  when  adding  data.   Any  relocated  deep
       directory is lost if the new session does not include the deep directory.

       Does not re-use RR_MOVED when doing multisession from TRANS.TBL.

       Does not create whole_name entry for RR_MOVED in multisession mode.

       There may be other bugs.  Please, report them to the maintainers.

HFS PROBLEMS/LIMITATIONS
       I  have  had  to make several assumptions on how I expect the modified libhfs routines to work, however there
       may be situations that either I haven't thought of, or come across when these assumptions fail.  Therefore  I
       can't  guarantee that genisoimage will work as expected (although I haven't had a major problem yet). Most of
       the HFS features work fine, but some are not fully tested. These are marked as Alpha above.

       Although HFS filenames appear to support uppercase and lowercase letters, the filesystem is case-insensitive,
       i.e.,  the  filenames  aBc  and  AbC  are the same. If a file is found in a directory with the same HFS name,
       genisoimage will attempt to make a unique name by adding `_' characters to one of the filenames.

       HFS file/directory names that share the first 31 characters have `_N' (a decimal number) substituted for  the
       last few characters to generate unique names.

       Care  must  be  taken  when  "grafting"  Apple/Unix files or directories (see above for the method and syntax
       involved). It is not possible to use a  new  name  for  an  Apple/Unix  encoded  file/directory.  e.g.  If  a
       Apple/Unix encoded file called oldname is to added to the CD, you cannot use the command line:

              genisoimage -o output.raw -hfs -graft-points newname=oldname cd_dir

       genisoimage will be unable to decode oldname.  However, you can graft Apple/Unix encoded files or directories
       as long as you do not attempt to give them new names as above.

       When creating an HFS volume with the multisession options, -M and -C, only files in the last session will  be
       in the HFS volume. i.e.  genisoimage cannot add existing files from previous sessions to the HFS volume.

       However,  if each session is created with -part, each session will appear as separate volumes when mounted on
       a Mac. In this case, it is worth using -V or -hfs-volid to give each session a unique volume name,  otherwise
       each "volume" will appear on the Desktop with the same name.

       Symbolic links (as with all other non-regular files) are not added to the HFS directory.

       Hybrid  volumes  may  be  larger  than pure ISO9660 volumes containing the same data. In some cases (e.g. DVD
       sized volumes) the difference can be significant. As an HFS volume gets bigger, so does the allocation  block
       size  (the  smallest amount of space a file can occupy).  For a 650MB CD, the allocation block is 10kB, for a
       4.7GB DVD it will be about 70kB.

       The maximum number of files in an HFS volume is about 65500 — although the real limit will be  somewhat  less
       than this.

       The  resulting  hybrid  volume  can be accessed on a Unix machine by using the hfsutils routines. However, no
       changes can be made to the volume as it is set as locked.  The option -hfs-unlock will create an output image
       that  is  unlocked  — however no changes should be made to the contents of the volume (unless you really know
       what you are doing) as it's not a "real" HFS volume.

       -mac-name will not currently work with -T — the Unix name will be used in the TRANS.TBL file, not the  Macin‐
       tosh name.

       Although genisoimage does not alter the contents of a file, if a binary file has its TYPE set as TEXT, it may
       be read incorrectly on a Macintosh. Therefore a better choice for the default TYPE may be ????.

       -mac-boot-file may not work at all...

       May not work with PC Exchange v2.2 or higher files (available with  MacOS  8.1).   DOS  media  containing  PC
       Exchange files should be mounted as type msdos (not vfat) when using Linux.

       The SFM format is only partially supported — see HFS MACINTOSH FILE FORMATS section above.

       It is not possible to use -sparc-boot or -generic-boot with -boot-hfs-file or -prep-boot.

       genisoimage should be able to create HFS hybrid images over 4Gb, although this has not been fully tested.

SEE ALSO
       genisoimagerc(5), wodim(1), mkzftree(8), magic(5).

AUTHORS
       genisoimage  is  derived  from  mkisofs  from the cdrtools 2.01.01a08 package from May 2006 (with few updates
       extracted from cdrtools 2.01.01a24 from March 2007) from .IR http://cdrecord.berlios.de/ , but is now part of
       the  cdrkit  suite,  maintained  by  Joerg  Jaspert, Eduard Bloch, Steve McIntyre, Peter Samuelson, Christian
       Fromme,  Ben  Hutchings,  and  other  contributors.   The  maintainers   can   be   contacted   at   debburn-
       devel@lists.alioth.debian.org, or see the cdrkit project web site at http://www.cdrkit.org/.

       Eric  Youngdale  wrote  the  first  versions (1993–1998) of mkisofs.  Jörg Schilling wrote the SCSI transport
       library and its interface, and has maintained mkisofs since 1999.  James Pearson wrote the HFS  hybrid  code,
       using  libhfs  by  Robert  Leslie.   Pearson, Schilling, Jungshik Shin and Jaakko Heinonen contributed to the
       character set conversion code.  The cdrkit maintainers have maintained genisoimage since 2006.

       Copyright 1993-1998 by Yggdrasil Computing, Inc.
       Copyright 1996-1997 by Robert Leslie
       Copyright 1997-2001 by James Pearson
       Copyright 1999-2006 by Jörg Schilling
       Copyright 2007 by Jörg Schilling (originating few updates)
       Copyright 2002-2003 by Jungshik Shin
       Copyright 2003 by Jaakko Heinonen
       Copyright 2006 by the Cdrkit maintainers

       If you want to take part in the development of genisoimage, you may join the cdrkit developer mailing list by
       following  the  instructions on http://alioth.debian.org/mail/?group_id=31006.  The email address of the list
       is debburn-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org.  This is also the address for user support  questions.   Note  that
       cdrkit and cdrtools are not affiliated.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
       UNIX is a registered trademark of The Open Group in the US and other countries.



                                                     13 Dec 2006                                      GENISOIMAGE(1)
