GETENT(1)                                           User Commands                                          GETENT(1)



NAME
       getent - get entries from Name Service Switch libraries

SYNOPSIS
       getent database [key ...]

DESCRIPTION
       The  getent command displays entries from databases supported by the Name Service Switch libraries, which are
       configured in /etc/nsswitch.conf.  If one or more key arguments are provided,  then  only  the  entries  that
       match  the  supplied keys will be displayed.  Otherwise, if no key is provided, all entries will be displayed
       (unless the database does not support enumeration).

       The database may be any of those supported by the GNU C Library, listed below:

          ahosts    When no key is provided, use sethostent(3), gethostent(3), and endhostent(3)  to  enumerate  the
                    hosts database.  This is identical to using hosts.  When one or more key arguments are provided,
                    pass each key in succession to getaddrinfo(3) with the  address  family  AF_UNSPEC,  enumerating
                    each socket address structure returned.

          ahostsv4  Same as ahosts, but use the address family AF_INET.

          ahostsv6  Same  as  ahosts,  but use the address family AF_INET6.  The call to getaddrinfo(3) in this case
                    includes the AI_V4MAPPED flag.

          aliases   When no key is provided, use setaliasent(3), getaliasent(3), and endaliasent(3) to enumerate the
                    aliases  database.   When one or more key arguments are provided, pass each key in succession to
                    getaliasbyname(3) and display the result.

          ethers    When one or more key arguments are provided, pass each key in succession  to  ether_aton(3)  and
                    ether_hostton(3)  until  a  result is obtained, and display the result.  Enumeration is not sup‐
                    ported on ethers, so a key must be provided.

          group     When no key is provided, use setgrent(3), getgrent(3), and endgrent(3) to  enumerate  the  group
                    database.  When one or more key arguments are provided, pass each numeric key to getgrgid(3) and
                    each nonnumeric key to getgrnam(3) and display the result.

          gshadow   When no key is provided, use setsgent(3), getsgent(3), and endsgent(3) to enumerate the  gshadow
                    database.   When  one  or more key arguments are provided, pass each key in succession to getsg‐
                    nam(3) and display the result.

          hosts     When no key is provided, use sethostent(3), gethostent(3), and endhostent(3)  to  enumerate  the
                    hosts  database.  When one or more key arguments are provided, pass each key to gethostbyaddr(3)
                    or gethostbyname2(3), depending on whether a call to inet_pton(3) indicates that the key  is  an
                    IPv6 or IPv4 address or not, and display the result.

          initgroups
                    When  one or more key arguments are provided, pass each key in succession to getgrouplist(3) and
                    display the result.  Enumeration is not supported on initgroups, so a key must be provided.

          netgroup  When one key is provided, pass the key to setnetgrent(3) and, using getnetgrent(3)  display  the
                    resulting string triple (hostname, username, domainname).  Alternatively, three keys may be pro‐
                    vided, which are interpreted as the hostname, username and domainname to  match  to  a  netgroup
                    name via innetgr(3).  Enumeration is not supported on netgroup, so either one or three keys must
                    be provided.

          networks  When no key is provided, use setnetent(3), getnetent(3), and endnetent(3) to enumerate the  net‐
                    works  database.   When one or more key arguments are provided, pass each numeric key to getnet‐
                    byaddr(3) and each nonnumeric key to getnetbyname(3) and display the result.

          passwd    When no key is provided, use setpwent(3), getpwent(3), and endpwent(3) to enumerate  the  passwd
                    database.  When one or more key arguments are provided, pass each numeric key to getpwuid(3) and
                    each nonnumeric key to getpwnam(3) and display the result.

          protocols When no key is provided, use setprotoent(3), getprotoent(3), and endprotoent(3) to enumerate the
                    protocols  database.  When one or more key arguments are provided, pass each numeric key to get‐
                    protobynumber(3) and each nonnumeric key to getprotobyname(3) and display the result.

          rpc       When no key is provided, use setrpcent(3), getrpcent(3), and endrpcent(3) to enumerate  the  rpc
                    database.   When  one  or more key arguments are provided, pass each numeric key to getrpcbynum‐
                    ber(3) and each nonnumeric key to getrpcbyname(3) and display the result.

          services  When no key is provided, use setservent(3), getservent(3), and endservent(3)  to  enumerate  the
                    services  database.   When one or more key arguments are provided, pass each numeric key to get‐
                    servbynumber(3) and each nonnumeric key to getservbyname(3) and display the result.

          shadow    When no key is provided, use setspent(3), getspent(3), and endspent(3) to enumerate  the  shadow
                    database.   When  one  or more key arguments are provided, pass each key in succession to getsp‐
                    nam(3) and display the result.

EXIT STATUS
       One of the following exit values can be returned by getent:

          0         Command completed successfully.

          1         Missing arguments, or database unknown.

          2         One or more supplied key could not be found in the database.

          3         Enumeration not supported on this database.

SEE ALSO
       nsswitch.conf(5)

COLOPHON
       This page is part of release 3.54 of the Linux man-pages project.  A description of the project, and informa‐
       tion about reporting bugs, can be found at http://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.



Linux                                                2013-03-15                                            GETENT(1)
