GETFACL(1)                                      Access Control Lists                                      GETFACL(1)



NAME
       getfacl - get file access control lists

SYNOPSIS
       getfacl [-aceEsRLPtpndvh] file ...

       getfacl [-aceEsRLPtpndvh] -


DESCRIPTION
       For  each  file,  getfacl  displays  the file name, owner, the group, and the Access Control List (ACL). If a
       directory has a default ACL, getfacl also displays the default ACL. Non-directories cannot have default ACLs.

       If getfacl is used on a file system that does not support  ACLs,  getfacl  displays  the  access  permissions
       defined by the traditional file mode permission bits.

       The output format of getfacl is as follows:
               1:  # file: somedir/
               2:  # owner: lisa
               3:  # group: staff
               4:  # flags: -s-
               5:  user::rwx
               6:  user:joe:rwx               #effective:r-x
               7:  group::rwx                 #effective:r-x
               8:  group:cool:r-x
               9:  mask::r-x
              10:  other::r-x
              11:  default:user::rwx
              12:  default:user:joe:rwx       #effective:r-x
              13:  default:group::r-x
              14:  default:mask::r-x
              15:  default:other::---


       Lines 1--3 indicate the file name, owner, and owning group.

       Line  4 indicates the setuid (s), setgid (s), and sticky (t) bits: either the letter representing the bit, or
       else a dash (-). This line is included if any of those bits is set and left out otherwise, so it will not  be
       shown for most files. (See CONFORMANCE TO POSIX 1003.1e DRAFT STANDARD 17 below.)

       Lines  5,  7  and  10  correspond to the user, group and other fields of the file mode permission bits. These
       three are called the base ACL entries. Lines 6 and 8 are named user and named group entries. Line  9  is  the
       effective  rights mask. This entry limits the effective rights granted to all groups and to named users. (The
       file owner and others permissions are not affected by the effective rights  mask;  all  other  entries  are.)
       Lines 11--15 display the default ACL associated with this directory. Directories may have a default ACL. Reg‐
       ular files never have a default ACL.

       The default behavior for getfacl is to display both the ACL and the default ACL, and to include an  effective
       rights comment for lines where the rights of the entry differ from the effective rights.

       If  output  is  to  a terminal, the effective rights comment is aligned to column 40. Otherwise, a single tab
       character separates the ACL entry and the effective rights comment.

       The ACL listings of multiple files are separated by blank lines.  The output of getfacl can also be  used  as
       input to setfacl.


   PERMISSIONS
       Process with search access to a file (i.e., processes with read access to the containing directory of a file)
       are also granted read access to the file's ACLs.  This is analogous to the permissions required for accessing
       the file mode.


OPTIONS
       -a, --access
           Display the file access control list.

       -d, --default
           Display the default access control list.

       -c, --omit-header
           Do not display the comment header (the first three lines of each file's output).

       -e, --all-effective
           Print all effective rights comments, even if identical to the rights defined by the ACL entry.

       -E, --no-effective
           Do not print effective rights comments.

       -s, --skip-base
           Skip files that only have the base ACL entries (owner, group, others).

       -R, --recursive
           List the ACLs of all files and directories recursively.

       -L, --logical
           Logical walk, follow symbolic links to directories. The default behavior is to follow symbolic link argu‐
           ments, and skip symbolic links encountered in subdirectories.  Only effective in combination with -R.

       -P, --physical
           Physical walk, do not follow symbolic links to directories. This  also  skips  symbolic  link  arguments.
           Only effective in combination with -R.

       -t, --tabular
           Use an alternative tabular output format. The ACL and the default ACL are displayed side by side. Permis‐
           sions that are ineffective due to the ACL mask entry are displayed capitalized. The entry tag  names  for
           the ACL_USER_OBJ and ACL_GROUP_OBJ entries are also displayed in capital letters, which helps in spotting
           those entries.

       -p, --absolute-names
           Do not strip leading slash characters (`/'). The default behavior is to strip leading slash characters.

       -n, --numeric
           List numeric user and group IDs

       -v, --version
           Print the version of getfacl and exit.

       -h, --help
           Print help explaining the command line options.

       --  End of command line options. All remaining parameters are interpreted as file names, even if  they  start
           with a dash character.

       -   If the file name parameter is a single dash character, getfacl reads a list of files from standard input.


CONFORMANCE TO POSIX 1003.1e DRAFT STANDARD 17
       If  the  environment variable POSIXLY_CORRECT is defined, the default behavior of getfacl changes in the fol‐
       lowing ways: Unless otherwise specified, only the ACL is printed. The default ACL is only printed if  the  -d
       option  is  given.  If  no command line parameter is given, getfacl behaves as if it was invoked as ``getfacl
       -''.  No flags comments indicating the setuid, setgit, and sticky bits are generated.

AUTHOR
       Andreas Gruenbacher, <a.gruenbacher@bestbits.at>.

       Please send your bug reports and comments to the above address.

SEE ALSO
       setfacl(1), acl(5)



May 2000                                         ACL File Utilities                                       GETFACL(1)
