GFORTRAN(1)                                              GNU                                             GFORTRAN(1)



NAME
       gfortran - GNU Fortran compiler

SYNOPSIS
       gfortran [-c|-S|-E]
                [-g] [-pg] [-Olevel]
                [-Wwarn...] [-pedantic]
                [-Idir...] [-Ldir...]
                [-Dmacro[=defn]...] [-Umacro]
                [-foption...]
                [-mmachine-option...]
                [-o outfile] infile...

       Only the most useful options are listed here; see below for the remainder.

DESCRIPTION
       The gfortran command supports all the options supported by the gcc command.  Only options specific to GNU
       Fortran are documented here.

       All GCC and GNU Fortran options are accepted both by gfortran and by gcc (as well as any other drivers built
       at the same time, such as g++), since adding GNU Fortran to the GCC distribution enables acceptance of GNU
       Fortran options by all of the relevant drivers.

       In some cases, options have positive and negative forms; the negative form of -ffoo would be -fno-foo.  This
       manual documents only one of these two forms, whichever one is not the default.

OPTIONS
       Here is a summary of all the options specific to GNU Fortran, grouped by type.  Explanations are in the
       following sections.

       Fortran Language Options
           -fall-intrinsics -fbackslash -fcray-pointer -fd-lines-as-code -fd-lines-as-comments -fdefault-double-8
           -fdefault-integer-8 -fdefault-real-8 -fdollar-ok -ffixed-line-length-n -ffixed-line-length-none
           -ffree-form -ffree-line-length-n -ffree-line-length-none -fimplicit-none -finteger-4-integer-8
           -fmax-identifier-length -fmodule-private -fno-fixed-form -fno-range-check -fopenmp -freal-4-real-10
           -freal-4-real-16 -freal-4-real-8 -freal-8-real-10 -freal-8-real-16 -freal-8-real-4 -std=std

       Preprocessing Options
           -A-question[=answer] -Aquestion=answer -C -CC -Dmacro[=defn] -H -P -Umacro -cpp -dD -dI -dM -dN -dU
           -fworking-directory -imultilib dir -iprefix file -iquote -isysroot dir -isystem dir -nocpp -nostdinc
           -undef

       Error and Warning Options
           -Waliasing -Wall -Wampersand -Warray-bounds -Wc-binding-type -Wcharacter-truncation -Wconversion
           -Wfunction-elimination -Wimplicit-interface -Wimplicit-procedure -Wintrinsic-shadow -Wintrinsics-std
           -Wline-truncation -Wno-align-commons -Wno-tabs -Wreal-q-constant -Wsurprising -Wunderflow
           -Wunused-parameter -Wrealloc-lhs Wrealloc-lhs-all -Wtarget-lifetime -fmax-errors=n -fsyntax-only
           -pedantic -pedantic-errors

       Debugging Options
           -fbacktrace -fdump-fortran-optimized -fdump-fortran-original -fdump-parse-tree -ffpe-trap=list

       Directory Options
           -Idir  -Jdir -fintrinsic-modules-path dir

       Link Options
           -static-libgfortran

       Runtime Options
           -fconvert=conversion -fmax-subrecord-length=length -frecord-marker=length -fsign-zero

       Code Generation Options
           -faggressive-function-elimination -fblas-matmul-limit=n -fbounds-check -fcheck-array-temporaries
           -fcheck=<all|array-temps|bounds|do|mem|pointer|recursion> -fcoarray=<none|single|lib> -fexternal-blas
           -ff2c -ffrontend-optimize -finit-character=n -finit-integer=n -finit-local-zero
           -finit-logical=<true|false> -finit-real=<zero|inf|-inf|nan|snan> -fmax-array-constructor=n
           -fmax-stack-var-size=n -fno-align-commons -fno-automatic -fno-protect-parens -fno-underscoring
           -fno-whole-file -fsecond-underscore -fpack-derived -frealloc-lhs -frecursive -frepack-arrays
           -fshort-enums -fstack-arrays

   Options controlling Fortran dialect
       The following options control the details of the Fortran dialect accepted by the compiler:

       -ffree-form
       -ffixed-form
           Specify the layout used by the source file.  The free form layout was introduced in Fortran 90.  Fixed
           form was traditionally used in older Fortran programs.  When neither option is specified, the source form
           is determined by the file extension.

       -fall-intrinsics
           This option causes all intrinsic procedures (including the GNU-specific extensions) to be accepted.  This
           can be useful with -std=f95 to force standard-compliance but get access to the full range of intrinsics
           available with gfortran.  As a consequence, -Wintrinsics-std will be ignored and no user-defined
           procedure with the same name as any intrinsic will be called except when it is explicitly declared
           "EXTERNAL".

       -fd-lines-as-code
       -fd-lines-as-comments
           Enable special treatment for lines beginning with "d" or "D" in fixed form sources.  If the
           -fd-lines-as-code option is given they are treated as if the first column contained a blank.  If the
           -fd-lines-as-comments option is given, they are treated as comment lines.

       -fdefault-double-8
           Set the "DOUBLE PRECISION" type to an 8 byte wide type.  If -fdefault-real-8 is given, "DOUBLE PRECISION"
           would instead be promoted to 16 bytes if possible, and -fdefault-double-8 can be used to prevent this.
           The kind of real constants like "1.d0" will not be changed by -fdefault-real-8 though, so also
           -fdefault-double-8 does not affect it.

       -fdefault-integer-8
           Set the default integer and logical types to an 8 byte wide type.  Do nothing if this is already the
           default.  This option also affects the kind of integer constants like 42.

       -fdefault-real-8
           Set the default real type to an 8 byte wide type.  Do nothing if this is already the default.  This
           option also affects the kind of non-double real constants like 1.0, and does promote the default width of
           "DOUBLE PRECISION" to 16 bytes if possible, unless "-fdefault-double-8" is given, too.

       -fdollar-ok
           Allow $ as a valid non-first character in a symbol name. Symbols that start with $ are rejected since it
           is unclear which rules to apply to implicit typing as different vendors implement different rules.  Using
           $ in "IMPLICIT" statements is also rejected.

       -fbackslash
           Change the interpretation of backslashes in string literals from a single backslash character to
           "C-style" escape characters. The following combinations are expanded "\a", "\b", "\f", "\n", "\r", "\t",
           "\v", "\\", and "\0" to the ASCII characters alert, backspace, form feed, newline, carriage return,
           horizontal tab, vertical tab, backslash, and NUL, respectively.  Additionally, "\x"nn, "\u"nnnn and
           "\U"nnnnnnnn (where each n is a hexadecimal digit) are translated into the Unicode characters
           corresponding to the specified code points. All other combinations of a character preceded by \ are
           unexpanded.

       -fmodule-private
           Set the default accessibility of module entities to "PRIVATE".  Use-associated entities will not be
           accessible unless they are explicitly declared as "PUBLIC".

       -ffixed-line-length-n
           Set column after which characters are ignored in typical fixed-form lines in the source file, and through
           which spaces are assumed (as if padded to that length) after the ends of short fixed-form lines.

           Popular values for n include 72 (the standard and the default), 80 (card image), and 132 (corresponding
           to "extended-source" options in some popular compilers).  n may also be none, meaning that the entire
           line is meaningful and that continued character constants never have implicit spaces appended to them to
           fill out the line.  -ffixed-line-length-0 means the same thing as -ffixed-line-length-none.

       -ffree-line-length-n
           Set column after which characters are ignored in typical free-form lines in the source file. The default
           value is 132.  n may be none, meaning that the entire line is meaningful.  -ffree-line-length-0 means the
           same thing as -ffree-line-length-none.

       -fmax-identifier-length=n
           Specify the maximum allowed identifier length. Typical values are 31 (Fortran 95) and 63 (Fortran 2003
           and Fortran 2008).

       -fimplicit-none
           Specify that no implicit typing is allowed, unless overridden by explicit "IMPLICIT" statements.  This is
           the equivalent of adding "implicit none" to the start of every procedure.

       -finteger-4-integer-8
           Promote all "INTEGER(KIND=4)" entities to an "INTEGER(KIND=8)" entities.  If "KIND=8" is unavailable,
           then an error will be issued.  This option should be used with care and may not be suitable for your
           codes.  Areas of possible concern include calls to external procedures, alignment in "EQUIVALENCE" and/or
           "COMMON", generic interfaces, BOZ literal constant conversion, and I/O.  Inspection of the intermediate
           representation of the translated Fortran code, produced by -fdump-tree-original, is suggested.

       -fcray-pointer
           Enable the Cray pointer extension, which provides C-like pointer functionality.

       -fopenmp
           Enable the OpenMP extensions.  This includes OpenMP "!$omp" directives in free form and "c$omp", *$omp
           and "!$omp" directives in fixed form, "!$" conditional compilation sentinels in free form and "c$", "*$"
           and "!$" sentinels in fixed form, and when linking arranges for the OpenMP runtime library to be linked
           in.  The option -fopenmp implies -frecursive.

       -fno-range-check
           Disable range checking on results of simplification of constant expressions during compilation.  For
           example, GNU Fortran will give an error at compile time when simplifying "a = 1. / 0".  With this option,
           no error will be given and "a" will be assigned the value "+Infinity".  If an expression evaluates to a
           value outside of the relevant range of ["-HUGE()":"HUGE()"], then the expression will be replaced by
           "-Inf" or "+Inf" as appropriate.  Similarly, "DATA i/Z'FFFFFFFF'/" will result in an integer overflow on
           most systems, but with -fno-range-check the value will "wrap around" and "i" will be initialized to -1
           instead.

       -freal-4-real-8
       -freal-4-real-10
       -freal-8-real-4
       -freal-8-real-10
       -freal-8-real-16
           Promote all "REAL(KIND=M)" entities to "REAL(KIND=N)" entities.  If "REAL(KIND=N)" is unavailable, then
           an error will be issued.  All other real kind types are unaffected by this option.  These options should
           be used with care and may not be suitable for your codes.  Areas of possible concern include calls to
           external procedures, alignment in "EQUIVALENCE" and/or "COMMON", generic interfaces, BOZ literal constant
           conversion, and I/O.  Inspection of the intermediate representation of the translated Fortran code,
           produced by -fdump-tree-original, is suggested.

       -std=std
           Specify the standard to which the program is expected to conform, which may be one of f95, f2003, f2008,
           gnu, or legacy.  The default value for std is gnu, which specifies a superset of the Fortran 95 standard
           that includes all of the extensions supported by GNU Fortran, although warnings will be given for
           obsolete extensions not recommended for use in new code.  The legacy value is equivalent but without the
           warnings for obsolete extensions, and may be useful for old non-standard programs.  The f95, f2003 and
           f2008 values specify strict conformance to the Fortran 95, Fortran 2003 and Fortran 2008 standards,
           respectively; errors are given for all extensions beyond the relevant language standard, and warnings are
           given for the Fortran 77 features that are permitted but obsolescent in later standards. -std=f2008ts
           allows the Fortran 2008 standard including the additions of the Technical Specification (TS) 29113 on
           Further Interoperability of Fortran with C.

   Enable and customize preprocessing
       Preprocessor related options. See section Preprocessing and conditional compilation for more detailed
       information on preprocessing in gfortran.

       -cpp
       -nocpp
           Enable preprocessing. The preprocessor is automatically invoked if the file extension is .fpp, .FPP,  .F,
           .FOR, .FTN, .F90, .F95, .F03 or .F08. Use this option to manually enable preprocessing of any kind of
           Fortran file.

           To disable preprocessing of files with any of the above listed extensions, use the negative form: -nocpp.

           The preprocessor is run in traditional mode. Any restrictions of the file-format, especially the limits
           on line length, apply for preprocessed output as well, so it might be advisable to use the
           -ffree-line-length-none or -ffixed-line-length-none options.

       -dM Instead of the normal output, generate a list of '#define' directives for all the macros defined during
           the execution of the preprocessor, including predefined macros. This gives you a way of finding out what
           is predefined in your version of the preprocessor.  Assuming you have no file foo.f90, the command

                     touch foo.f90; gfortran -cpp -E -dM foo.f90

           will show all the predefined macros.

       -dD Like -dM except in two respects: it does not include the predefined macros, and it outputs both the
           "#define" directives and the result of preprocessing. Both kinds of output go to the standard output
           file.

       -dN Like -dD, but emit only the macro names, not their expansions.

       -dU Like dD except that only macros that are expanded, or whose definedness is tested in preprocessor
           directives, are output; the output is delayed until the use or test of the macro; and '#undef' directives
           are also output for macros tested but undefined at the time.

       -dI Output '#include' directives in addition to the result of preprocessing.

       -fworking-directory
           Enable generation of linemarkers in the preprocessor output that will let the compiler know the current
           working directory at the time of preprocessing. When this option is enabled, the preprocessor will emit,
           after the initial linemarker, a second linemarker with the current working directory followed by two
           slashes. GCC will use this directory, when it is present in the preprocessed input, as the directory
           emitted as the current working directory in some debugging information formats.  This option is
           implicitly enabled if debugging information is enabled, but this can be inhibited with the negated form
           -fno-working-directory. If the -P flag is present in the command line, this option has no effect, since
           no "#line" directives are emitted whatsoever.

       -idirafter dir
           Search dir for include files, but do it after all directories specified with -I and the standard system
           directories have been exhausted. dir is treated as a system include directory.  If dir begins with "=",
           then the "=" will be replaced by the sysroot prefix; see --sysroot and -isysroot.

       -imultilib dir
           Use dir as a subdirectory of the directory containing target-specific C++ headers.

       -iprefix prefix
           Specify prefix as the prefix for subsequent -iwithprefix options. If the prefix represents a directory,
           you should include the final '/'.

       -isysroot dir
           This option is like the --sysroot option, but applies only to header files. See the --sysroot option for
           more information.

       -iquote dir
           Search dir only for header files requested with "#include "file""; they are not searched for "#include
           <file>", before all directories specified by -I and before the standard system directories. If dir begins
           with "=", then the "=" will be replaced by the sysroot prefix; see --sysroot and -isysroot.

       -isystem dir
           Search dir for header files, after all directories specified by -I but before the standard system
           directories. Mark it as a system directory, so that it gets the same special treatment as is applied to
           the standard system directories. If dir begins with "=", then the "=" will be replaced by the sysroot
           prefix; see --sysroot and -isysroot.

       -nostdinc
           Do not search the standard system directories for header files. Only the directories you have specified
           with -I options (and the directory of the current file, if appropriate) are searched.

       -undef
           Do not predefine any system-specific or GCC-specific macros.  The standard predefined macros remain
           defined.

       -Apredicate=answer
           Make an assertion with the predicate predicate and answer answer.  This form is preferred to the older
           form -A predicate(answer), which is still supported, because it does not use shell special characters.

       -A-predicate=answer
           Cancel an assertion with the predicate predicate and answer answer.

       -C  Do not discard comments. All comments are passed through to the output file, except for comments in
           processed directives, which are deleted along with the directive.

           You should be prepared for side effects when using -C; it causes the preprocessor to treat comments as
           tokens in their own right. For example, comments appearing at the start of what would be a directive line
           have the effect of turning that line into an ordinary source line, since the first token on the line is
           no longer a '#'.

           Warning: this currently handles C-Style comments only. The preprocessor does not yet recognize Fortran-
           style comments.

       -CC Do not discard comments, including during macro expansion. This is like -C, except that comments
           contained within macros are also passed through to the output file where the macro is expanded.

           In addition to the side-effects of the -C option, the -CC option causes all C++-style comments inside a
           macro to be converted to C-style comments. This is to prevent later use of that macro from inadvertently
           commenting out the remainder of the source line. The -CC option is generally used to support lint
           comments.

           Warning: this currently handles C- and C++-Style comments only. The preprocessor does not yet recognize
           Fortran-style comments.

       -Dname
           Predefine name as a macro, with definition 1.

       -Dname=definition
           The contents of definition are tokenized and processed as if they appeared during translation phase three
           in a '#define' directive.  In particular, the definition will be truncated by embedded newline
           characters.

           If you are invoking the preprocessor from a shell or shell-like program you may need to use the shell's
           quoting syntax to protect characters such as spaces that have a meaning in the shell syntax.

           If you wish to define a function-like macro on the command line, write its argument list with surrounding
           parentheses before the equals sign (if any). Parentheses are meaningful to most shells, so you will need
           to quote the option. With sh and csh, "-D'name(args...)=definition'" works.

           -D and -U options are processed in the order they are given on the command line. All -imacros file and
           -include file options are processed after all -D and -U options.

       -H  Print the name of each header file used, in addition to other normal activities. Each name is indented to
           show how deep in the '#include' stack it is.

       -P  Inhibit generation of linemarkers in the output from the preprocessor.  This might be useful when running
           the preprocessor on something that is not C code, and will be sent to a program which might be confused
           by the linemarkers.

       -Uname
           Cancel any previous definition of name, either built in or provided with a -D option.

   Options to request or suppress errors and warnings
       Errors are diagnostic messages that report that the GNU Fortran compiler cannot compile the relevant piece of
       source code.  The compiler will continue to process the program in an attempt to report further errors to aid
       in debugging, but will not produce any compiled output.

       Warnings are diagnostic messages that report constructions which are not inherently erroneous but which are
       risky or suggest there is likely to be a bug in the program.  Unless -Werror is specified, they do not
       prevent compilation of the program.

       You can request many specific warnings with options beginning -W, for example -Wimplicit to request warnings
       on implicit declarations.  Each of these specific warning options also has a negative form beginning -Wno- to
       turn off warnings; for example, -Wno-implicit.  This manual lists only one of the two forms, whichever is not
       the default.

       These options control the amount and kinds of errors and warnings produced by GNU Fortran:

       -fmax-errors=n
           Limits the maximum number of error messages to n, at which point GNU Fortran bails out rather than
           attempting to continue processing the source code.  If n is 0, there is no limit on the number of error
           messages produced.

       -fsyntax-only
           Check the code for syntax errors, but do not actually compile it.  This will generate module files for
           each module present in the code, but no other output file.

       -pedantic
           Issue warnings for uses of extensions to Fortran 95.  -pedantic also applies to C-language constructs
           where they occur in GNU Fortran source files, such as use of \e in a character constant within a
           directive like "#include".

           Valid Fortran 95 programs should compile properly with or without this option.  However, without this
           option, certain GNU extensions and traditional Fortran features are supported as well.  With this option,
           many of them are rejected.

           Some users try to use -pedantic to check programs for conformance.  They soon find that it does not do
           quite what they want---it finds some nonstandard practices, but not all.  However, improvements to GNU
           Fortran in this area are welcome.

           This should be used in conjunction with -std=f95, -std=f2003 or -std=f2008.

       -pedantic-errors
           Like -pedantic, except that errors are produced rather than warnings.

       -Wall
           Enables commonly used warning options pertaining to usage that we recommend avoiding and that we believe
           are easy to avoid.  This currently includes -Waliasing, -Wampersand, -Wconversion, -Wsurprising,
           -Wc-binding-type, -Wintrinsics-std, -Wno-tabs, -Wintrinsic-shadow, -Wline-truncation, -Wtarget-lifetime,
           -Wreal-q-constant and -Wunused.

       -Waliasing
           Warn about possible aliasing of dummy arguments. Specifically, it warns if the same actual argument is
           associated with a dummy argument with "INTENT(IN)" and a dummy argument with "INTENT(OUT)" in a call with
           an explicit interface.

           The following example will trigger the warning.

                     interface
                       subroutine bar(a,b)
                         integer, intent(in) :: a
                         integer, intent(out) :: b
                       end subroutine
                     end interface
                     integer :: a

                     call bar(a,a)

       -Wampersand
           Warn about missing ampersand in continued character constants. The warning is given with -Wampersand,
           -pedantic, -std=f95, -std=f2003 and -std=f2008. Note: With no ampersand given in a continued character
           constant, GNU Fortran assumes continuation at the first non-comment, non-whitespace character after the
           ampersand that initiated the continuation.

       -Warray-temporaries
           Warn about array temporaries generated by the compiler.  The information generated by this warning is
           sometimes useful in optimization, in order to avoid such temporaries.

       -Wc-binding-type
           Warn if the a variable might not be C interoperable.  In particular, warn if the variable has been
           declared using an intrinsic type with default kind instead of using a kind parameter defined for C
           interoperability in the intrinsic "ISO_C_Binding" module.  This option is implied by -Wall.

       -Wcharacter-truncation
           Warn when a character assignment will truncate the assigned string.

       -Wline-truncation
           Warn when a source code line will be truncated.  This option is implied by -Wall.

       -Wconversion
           Warn about implicit conversions that are likely to change the value of the expression after conversion.
           Implied by -Wall.

       -Wconversion-extra
           Warn about implicit conversions between different types and kinds.

       -Wextra
           Enables some warning options for usages of language features which may be problematic. This currently
           includes -Wcompare-reals and -Wunused-parameter.

       -Wimplicit-interface
           Warn if a procedure is called without an explicit interface.  Note this only checks that an explicit
           interface is present.  It does not check that the declared interfaces are consistent across program
           units.

       -Wimplicit-procedure
           Warn if a procedure is called that has neither an explicit interface nor has been declared as "EXTERNAL".

       -Wintrinsics-std
           Warn if gfortran finds a procedure named like an intrinsic not available in the currently selected
           standard (with -std) and treats it as "EXTERNAL" procedure because of this.  -fall-intrinsics can be used
           to never trigger this behavior and always link to the intrinsic regardless of the selected standard.

       -Wreal-q-constant
           Produce a warning if a real-literal-constant contains a "q" exponent-letter.

       -Wsurprising
           Produce a warning when "suspicious" code constructs are encountered.  While technically legal these
           usually indicate that an error has been made.

           This currently produces a warning under the following circumstances:

           ·   An INTEGER SELECT construct has a CASE that can never be matched as its lower value is greater than
               its upper value.

           ·   A LOGICAL SELECT construct has three CASE statements.

           ·   A TRANSFER specifies a source that is shorter than the destination.

           ·   The type of a function result is declared more than once with the same type.  If -pedantic or
               standard-conforming mode is enabled, this is an error.

           ·   A "CHARACTER" variable is declared with negative length.

       -Wtabs
           By default, tabs are accepted as whitespace, but tabs are not members of the Fortran Character Set.  For
           continuation lines, a tab followed by a digit between 1 and 9 is supported.  -Wno-tabs will cause a
           warning to be issued if a tab is encountered. Note, -Wno-tabs is active for -pedantic, -std=f95,
           -std=f2003, -std=f2008 and -Wall.

       -Wunderflow
           Produce a warning when numerical constant expressions are encountered, which yield an UNDERFLOW during
           compilation.

       -Wintrinsic-shadow
           Warn if a user-defined procedure or module procedure has the same name as an intrinsic; in this case, an
           explicit interface or "EXTERNAL" or "INTRINSIC" declaration might be needed to get calls later resolved
           to the desired intrinsic/procedure.  This option is implied by -Wall.

       -Wunused-dummy-argument
           Warn about unused dummy arguments. This option is implied by -Wall.

       -Wunused-parameter
           Contrary to gcc's meaning of -Wunused-parameter, gfortran's implementation of this option does not warn
           about unused dummy arguments (see -Wunused-dummy-argument), but about unused "PARAMETER" values.
           -Wunused-parameter is not included in -Wall but is implied by -Wall -Wextra.

       -Walign-commons
           By default, gfortran warns about any occasion of variables being padded for proper alignment inside a
           "COMMON" block. This warning can be turned off via -Wno-align-commons. See also -falign-commons.

       -Wfunction-elimination
           Warn if any calls to functions are eliminated by the optimizations enabled by the -ffrontend-optimize
           option.

       -Wrealloc-lhs
           Warn when the compiler might insert code to for allocation or reallocation of an allocatable array
           variable of intrinsic type in intrinsic assignments.  In hot loops, the Fortran 2003 reallocation feature
           may reduce the performance.  If the array is already allocated with the correct shape, consider using a
           whole-array array-spec (e.g. "(:,:,:)") for the variable on the left-hand side to prevent the
           reallocation check. Note that in some cases the warning is shown, even if the compiler will optimize
           reallocation checks away.  For instance, when the right-hand side contains the same variable multiplied
           by a scalar.  See also -frealloc-lhs.

       -Wrealloc-lhs-all
           Warn when the compiler inserts code to for allocation or reallocation of an allocatable variable; this
           includes scalars and derived types.

       -Wcompare-reals
           Warn when comparing real or complex types for equality or inequality.  This option is implied by -Wextra.

       -Wtarget-lifetime
           Warn if the pointer in a pointer assignment might be longer than the its target. This option is implied
           by -Wall.

       -Werror
           Turns all warnings into errors.

       Some of these have no effect when compiling programs written in Fortran.

   Options for debugging your program or GNU Fortran
       GNU Fortran has various special options that are used for debugging either your program or the GNU Fortran
       compiler.

       -fdump-fortran-original
           Output the internal parse tree after translating the source program into internal representation.  Only
           really useful for debugging the GNU Fortran compiler itself.

       -fdump-fortran-optimized
           Output the parse tree after front-end optimization.  Only really useful for debugging the GNU Fortran
           compiler itself.

       -fdump-parse-tree
           Output the internal parse tree after translating the source program into internal representation.  Only
           really useful for debugging the GNU Fortran compiler itself.  This option is deprecated; use
           "-fdump-fortran-original" instead.

       -ffpe-trap=list
           Specify a list of floating point exception traps to enable.  On most systems, if a floating point
           exception occurs and the trap for that exception is enabled, a SIGFPE signal will be sent and the program
           being aborted, producing a core file useful for debugging.  list is a (possibly empty) comma-separated
           list of the following exceptions: invalid (invalid floating point operation, such as "SQRT(-1.0)"), zero
           (division by zero), overflow (overflow in a floating point operation), underflow (underflow in a floating
           point operation), inexact (loss of precision during operation), and denormal (operation performed on a
           denormal value).  The first five exceptions correspond to the five IEEE 754 exceptions, whereas the last
           one (denormal) is not part of the IEEE 754 standard but is available on some common architectures such as
           x86.

           The first three exceptions (invalid, zero, and overflow) often indicate serious errors, and unless the
           program has provisions for dealing with these exceptions, enabling traps for these three exceptions is
           probably a good idea.

           Many, if not most, floating point operations incur loss of precision due to rounding, and hence the
           "ffpe-trap=inexact" is likely to be uninteresting in practice.

           By default no exception traps are enabled.

       -fno-backtrace
           When a serious runtime error is encountered or a deadly signal is emitted (segmentation fault, illegal
           instruction, bus error, floating-point exception, and the other POSIX signals that have the action core),
           the Fortran runtime library tries to output a backtrace of the error. "-fno-backtrace" disables the
           backtrace generation. This option only has influence for compilation of the Fortran main program.

   Options for directory search
       These options affect how GNU Fortran searches for files specified by the "INCLUDE" directive and where it
       searches for previously compiled modules.

       It also affects the search paths used by cpp when used to preprocess Fortran source.

       -Idir
           These affect interpretation of the "INCLUDE" directive (as well as of the "#include" directive of the cpp
           preprocessor).

           Also note that the general behavior of -I and "INCLUDE" is pretty much the same as of -I with "#include"
           in the cpp preprocessor, with regard to looking for header.gcc files and other such things.

           This path is also used to search for .mod files when previously compiled modules are required by a "USE"
           statement.

       -Jdir
           This option specifies where to put .mod files for compiled modules.  It is also added to the list of
           directories to searched by an "USE" statement.

           The default is the current directory.

       -fintrinsic-modules-path dir
           This option specifies the location of pre-compiled intrinsic modules, if they are not in the default
           location expected by the compiler.

   Influencing the linking step
       These options come into play when the compiler links object files into an executable output file. They are
       meaningless if the compiler is not doing a link step.

       -static-libgfortran
           On systems that provide libgfortran as a shared and a static library, this option forces the use of the
           static version. If no shared version of libgfortran was built when the compiler was configured, this
           option has no effect.

   Influencing runtime behavior
       These options affect the runtime behavior of programs compiled with GNU Fortran.

       -fconvert=conversion
           Specify the representation of data for unformatted files.  Valid values for conversion are: native, the
           default; swap, swap between big- and little-endian; big-endian, use big-endian representation for
           unformatted files; little-endian, use little-endian representation for unformatted files.

           This option has an effect only when used in the main program.  The "CONVERT" specifier and the
           GFORTRAN_CONVERT_UNIT environment variable override the default specified by -fconvert.

       -frecord-marker=length
           Specify the length of record markers for unformatted files.  Valid values for length are 4 and 8.
           Default is 4.  This is different from previous versions of gfortran, which specified a default record
           marker length of 8 on most systems.  If you want to read or write files compatible with earlier versions
           of gfortran, use -frecord-marker=8.

       -fmax-subrecord-length=length
           Specify the maximum length for a subrecord.  The maximum permitted value for length is 2147483639, which
           is also the default.  Only really useful for use by the gfortran testsuite.

       -fsign-zero
           When enabled, floating point numbers of value zero with the sign bit set are written as negative number
           in formatted output and treated as negative in the "SIGN" intrinsic.  -fno-sign-zero does not print the
           negative sign of zero values (or values rounded to zero for I/O) and regards zero as positive number in
           the "SIGN" intrinsic for compatibility with Fortran 77. The default is -fsign-zero.

   Options for code generation conventions
       These machine-independent options control the interface conventions used in code generation.

       Most of them have both positive and negative forms; the negative form of -ffoo would be -fno-foo.  In the
       table below, only one of the forms is listed---the one which is not the default.  You can figure out the
       other form by either removing no- or adding it.

       -fno-automatic
           Treat each program unit (except those marked as RECURSIVE) as if the "SAVE" statement were specified for
           every local variable and array referenced in it. Does not affect common blocks. (Some Fortran compilers
           provide this option under the name -static or -save.)  The default, which is -fautomatic, uses the stack
           for local variables smaller than the value given by -fmax-stack-var-size.  Use the option -frecursive to
           use no static memory.

       -ff2c
           Generate code designed to be compatible with code generated by g77 and f2c.

           The calling conventions used by g77 (originally implemented in f2c) require functions that return type
           default "REAL" to actually return the C type "double", and functions that return type "COMPLEX" to return
           the values via an extra argument in the calling sequence that points to where to store the return value.
           Under the default GNU calling conventions, such functions simply return their results as they would in
           GNU C---default "REAL" functions return the C type "float", and "COMPLEX" functions return the GNU C type
           "complex".  Additionally, this option implies the -fsecond-underscore option, unless
           -fno-second-underscore is explicitly requested.

           This does not affect the generation of code that interfaces with the libgfortran library.

           Caution: It is not a good idea to mix Fortran code compiled with -ff2c with code compiled with the
           default -fno-f2c calling conventions as, calling "COMPLEX" or default "REAL" functions between program
           parts which were compiled with different calling conventions will break at execution time.

           Caution: This will break code which passes intrinsic functions of type default "REAL" or "COMPLEX" as
           actual arguments, as the library implementations use the -fno-f2c calling conventions.

       -fno-underscoring
           Do not transform names of entities specified in the Fortran source file by appending underscores to them.

           With -funderscoring in effect, GNU Fortran appends one underscore to external names with no underscores.
           This is done to ensure compatibility with code produced by many UNIX Fortran compilers.

           Caution: The default behavior of GNU Fortran is incompatible with f2c and g77, please use the -ff2c
           option if you want object files compiled with GNU Fortran to be compatible with object code created with
           these tools.

           Use of -fno-underscoring is not recommended unless you are experimenting with issues such as integration
           of GNU Fortran into existing system environments (vis-a-vis existing libraries, tools, and so on).

           For example, with -funderscoring, and assuming other defaults like -fcase-lower and that "j()" and
           "max_count()" are external functions while "my_var" and "lvar" are local variables, a statement like

                   I = J() + MAX_COUNT (MY_VAR, LVAR)

           is implemented as something akin to:

                   i = j_() + max_count__(&my_var__, &lvar);

           With -fno-underscoring, the same statement is implemented as:

                   i = j() + max_count(&my_var, &lvar);

           Use of -fno-underscoring allows direct specification of user-defined names while debugging and when
           interfacing GNU Fortran code with other languages.

           Note that just because the names match does not mean that the interface implemented by GNU Fortran for an
           external name matches the interface implemented by some other language for that same name.  That is,
           getting code produced by GNU Fortran to link to code produced by some other compiler using this or any
           other method can be only a small part of the overall solution---getting the code generated by both
           compilers to agree on issues other than naming can require significant effort, and, unlike naming
           disagreements, linkers normally cannot detect disagreements in these other areas.

           Also, note that with -fno-underscoring, the lack of appended underscores introduces the very real
           possibility that a user-defined external name will conflict with a name in a system library, which could
           make finding unresolved-reference bugs quite difficult in some cases---they might occur at program run
           time, and show up only as buggy behavior at run time.

           In future versions of GNU Fortran we hope to improve naming and linking issues so that debugging always
           involves using the names as they appear in the source, even if the names as seen by the linker are
           mangled to prevent accidental linking between procedures with incompatible interfaces.

       -fno-whole-file
           This flag causes the compiler to resolve and translate each procedure in a file separately.

           By default, the whole file is parsed and placed in a single front-end tree.  During resolution, in
           addition to all the usual checks and fixups, references to external procedures that are in the same file
           effect resolution of that procedure, if not already done, and a check of the interfaces.  The dependences
           are resolved by changing the order in which the file is translated into the backend tree.  Thus, a
           procedure that is referenced is translated before the reference and the duplication of backend tree
           declarations eliminated.

           The -fno-whole-file option is deprecated and may lead to wrong code.

       -fsecond-underscore
           By default, GNU Fortran appends an underscore to external names.  If this option is used GNU Fortran
           appends two underscores to names with underscores and one underscore to external names with no
           underscores.  GNU Fortran also appends two underscores to internal names with underscores to avoid naming
           collisions with external names.

           This option has no effect if -fno-underscoring is in effect.  It is implied by the -ff2c option.

           Otherwise, with this option, an external name such as "MAX_COUNT" is implemented as a reference to the
           link-time external symbol "max_count__", instead of "max_count_".  This is required for compatibility
           with g77 and f2c, and is implied by use of the -ff2c option.

       -fcoarray=<keyword>
           none
               Disable coarray support; using coarray declarations and image-control statements will produce a
               compile-time error. (Default)

           single
               Single-image mode, i.e. "num_images()" is always one.

           lib Library-based coarray parallelization; a suitable GNU Fortran coarray library needs to be linked.

       -fcheck=<keyword>
           Enable the generation of run-time checks; the argument shall be a comma-delimited list of the following
           keywords.

           all Enable all run-time test of -fcheck.

           array-temps
               Warns at run time when for passing an actual argument a temporary array had to be generated. The
               information generated by this warning is sometimes useful in optimization, in order to avoid such
               temporaries.

               Note: The warning is only printed once per location.

           bounds
               Enable generation of run-time checks for array subscripts and against the declared minimum and
               maximum values.  It also checks array indices for assumed and deferred shape arrays against the
               actual allocated bounds and ensures that all string lengths are equal for character array
               constructors without an explicit typespec.

               Some checks require that -fcheck=bounds is set for the compilation of the main program.

               Note: In the future this may also include other forms of checking, e.g., checking substring
               references.

           do  Enable generation of run-time checks for invalid modification of loop iteration variables.

           mem Enable generation of run-time checks for memory allocation.  Note: This option does not affect
               explicit allocations using the "ALLOCATE" statement, which will be always checked.

           pointer
               Enable generation of run-time checks for pointers and allocatables.

           recursion
               Enable generation of run-time checks for recursively called subroutines and functions which are not
               marked as recursive. See also -frecursive.  Note: This check does not work for OpenMP programs and is
               disabled if used together with -frecursive and -fopenmp.

       -fbounds-check
           Deprecated alias for -fcheck=bounds.

       -fcheck-array-temporaries
           Deprecated alias for -fcheck=array-temps.

       -fmax-array-constructor=n
           This option can be used to increase the upper limit permitted in array constructors.  The code below
           requires this option to expand the array at compile time.

                   program test
                   implicit none
                   integer j
                   integer, parameter :: n = 100000
                   integer, parameter :: i(n) = (/ (2*j, j = 1, n) /)
                   print '(10(I0,1X))', i
                   end program test

           Caution:  This option can lead to long compile times and excessively large object files.

           The default value for n is 65535.

       -fmax-stack-var-size=n
           This option specifies the size in bytes of the largest array that will be put on the stack; if the size
           is exceeded static memory is used (except in procedures marked as RECURSIVE). Use the option -frecursive
           to allow for recursive procedures which do not have a RECURSIVE attribute or for parallel programs. Use
           -fno-automatic to never use the stack.

           This option currently only affects local arrays declared with constant bounds, and may not apply to all
           character variables.  Future versions of GNU Fortran may improve this behavior.

           The default value for n is 32768.

       -fstack-arrays
           Adding this option will make the Fortran compiler put all local arrays, even those of unknown size onto
           stack memory.  If your program uses very large local arrays it is possible that you will have to extend
           your runtime limits for stack memory on some operating systems. This flag is enabled by default at
           optimization level -Ofast.

       -fpack-derived
           This option tells GNU Fortran to pack derived type members as closely as possible.  Code compiled with
           this option is likely to be incompatible with code compiled without this option, and may execute slower.

       -frepack-arrays
           In some circumstances GNU Fortran may pass assumed shape array sections via a descriptor describing a
           noncontiguous area of memory.  This option adds code to the function prologue to repack the data into a
           contiguous block at runtime.

           This should result in faster accesses to the array.  However it can introduce significant overhead to the
           function call, especially  when the passed data is noncontiguous.

       -fshort-enums
           This option is provided for interoperability with C code that was compiled with the -fshort-enums option.
           It will make GNU Fortran choose the smallest "INTEGER" kind a given enumerator set will fit in, and give
           all its enumerators this kind.

       -fexternal-blas
           This option will make gfortran generate calls to BLAS functions for some matrix operations like "MATMUL",
           instead of using our own algorithms, if the size of the matrices involved is larger than a given limit
           (see -fblas-matmul-limit).  This may be profitable if an optimized vendor BLAS library is available.  The
           BLAS library will have to be specified at link time.

       -fblas-matmul-limit=n
           Only significant when -fexternal-blas is in effect.  Matrix multiplication of matrices with size larger
           than (or equal to) n will be performed by calls to BLAS functions, while others will be handled by
           gfortran internal algorithms. If the matrices involved are not square, the size comparison is performed
           using the geometric mean of the dimensions of the argument and result matrices.

           The default value for n is 30.

       -frecursive
           Allow indirect recursion by forcing all local arrays to be allocated on the stack. This flag cannot be
           used together with -fmax-stack-var-size= or -fno-automatic.

       -finit-local-zero
       -finit-integer=n
       -finit-real=<zero|inf|-inf|nan|snan>
       -finit-logical=<true|false>
       -finit-character=n
           The -finit-local-zero option instructs the compiler to initialize local "INTEGER", "REAL", and "COMPLEX"
           variables to zero, "LOGICAL" variables to false, and "CHARACTER" variables to a string of null bytes.
           Finer-grained initialization options are provided by the -finit-integer=n,
           -finit-real=<zero|inf|-inf|nan|snan> (which also initializes the real and imaginary parts of local
           "COMPLEX" variables), -finit-logical=<true|false>, and -finit-character=n (where n is an ASCII character
           value) options.  These options do not initialize

           ·   allocatable arrays

           ·   components of derived type variables

           ·   variables that appear in an "EQUIVALENCE" statement.

           (These limitations may be removed in future releases).

           Note that the -finit-real=nan option initializes "REAL" and "COMPLEX" variables with a quiet NaN. For a
           signalling NaN use -finit-real=snan; note, however, that compile-time optimizations may convert them into
           quiet NaN and that trapping needs to be enabled (e.g. via -ffpe-trap).

           Finally, note that enabling any of the -finit-* options will silence warnings that would have been
           emitted by -Wuninitialized for the affected local variables.

       -falign-commons
           By default, gfortran enforces proper alignment of all variables in a "COMMON" block by padding them as
           needed. On certain platforms this is mandatory, on others it increases performance. If a "COMMON" block
           is not declared with consistent data types everywhere, this padding can cause trouble, and
           -fno-align-commons can be used to disable automatic alignment. The same form of this option should be
           used for all files that share a "COMMON" block.  To avoid potential alignment issues in "COMMON" blocks,
           it is recommended to order objects from largest to smallest.

       -fno-protect-parens
           By default the parentheses in expression are honored for all optimization levels such that the compiler
           does not do any re-association. Using -fno-protect-parens allows the compiler to reorder "REAL" and
           "COMPLEX" expressions to produce faster code. Note that for the re-association optimization
           -fno-signed-zeros and -fno-trapping-math need to be in effect. The parentheses protection is enabled by
           default, unless -Ofast is given.

       -frealloc-lhs
           An allocatable left-hand side of an intrinsic assignment is automatically (re)allocated if it is either
           unallocated or has a different shape. The option is enabled by default except when -std=f95 is given. See
           also -Wrealloc-lhs.

       -faggressive-function-elimination
           Functions with identical argument lists are eliminated within statements, regardless of whether these
           functions are marked "PURE" or not. For example, in

                     a = f(b,c) + f(b,c)

           there will only be a single call to "f".  This option only works if -ffrontend-optimize is in effect.

       -ffrontend-optimize
           This option performs front-end optimization, based on manipulating parts the Fortran parse tree.  Enabled
           by default by any -O option.  Optimizations enabled by this option include elimination of identical
           function calls within expressions, removing unnecessary calls to "TRIM" in comparisons and assignments
           and replacing TRIM(a) with "a(1:LEN_TRIM(a))".  It can be deselected by specifying
           -fno-frontend-optimize.

ENVIRONMENT
       The gfortran compiler currently does not make use of any environment variables to control its operation above
       and beyond those that affect the operation of gcc.

BUGS
       For instructions on reporting bugs, see <file:///usr/share/doc/gcc-4.8/README.Bugs>.

SEE ALSO
       gpl(7), gfdl(7), fsf-funding(7), cpp(1), gcov(1), gcc(1), as(1), ld(1), gdb(1), adb(1), dbx(1), sdb(1) and
       the Info entries for gcc, cpp, gfortran, as, ld, binutils and gdb.

AUTHOR
       See the Info entry for gfortran for contributors to GCC and GNU Fortran.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2004-2013 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

       Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU Free
       Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with the
       Invariant Sections being "Funding Free Software", the Front-Cover Texts being (a) (see below), and with the
       Back-Cover Texts being (b) (see below).  A copy of the license is included in the gfdl(7) man page.

       (a) The FSF's Front-Cover Text is:

            A GNU Manual

       (b) The FSF's Back-Cover Text is:

            You have freedom to copy and modify this GNU Manual, like GNU
            software.  Copies published by the Free Software Foundation raise
            funds for GNU development.



gcc-4.8                                              2015-06-23                                          GFORTRAN(1)
