GFTOPK(1)                                      General Commands Manual                                     GFTOPK(1)



NAME
       gftopk - convert generic font files to packed font files

SYNOPSIS
       gftopk [-v] gf_file_name [pk_file_name]

DESCRIPTION
       This  manual  page  is not meant to be exhaustive.  The complete documentation for this version of TeX can be
       found in the info file or manual Web2C: A TeX implementation.

       The gftopk program converts a generic font file output by, for example, mf(1), to a packed font file for  use
       by  DVI-reading  programs.  Packed font files (pk files) are much smaller than the corresponding gf files, so
       they are generally the font format of choice.

       The gf_file_name on the command line must be complete. Because the resolution is part of  the  extension,  it
       would  not  make  sense  to  append  a  default  extension  as  is done with TeX or DVI-reading software. The
       pk_file_name defaults to the same (stripped) name as gf_file_name, and it is placed in  the  current  working
       directory with the pk suffix replacing gf.  For example, the input file cmr10.300gf would become cmr10.300pk.

OPTIONS
       Unless the -v switch is given, gftopk operates silently.  With -v, the version number of the program and sta‐
       tistics about the packing are output to stdout.

ENVIRONMENT
       gftopk looks for gf_file_name first in the current directory.  If it is not present there, it uses the  envi‐
       ronment  variable  GFFONTS.   If that is not set, it uses the variable TEXFONTS.  If that is not set, it uses
       the system default.

       See tex(1) for the details of the searching.

SEE ALSO
       gftype(1), pktogf(1), pktype(1).
       Donald E. Knuth et al., Metafontware.

AUTHORS
       Tomas Rokicki wrote the program. It was published as part of the  Metafontware  technical  report,  available
       from the TeX Users Group.  Paul Richards originally ported it to Unix.



Web2C 2013                                        14 December 1993                                         GFTOPK(1)
