ghc-pkg(1)                                     General Commands Manual                                    ghc-pkg(1)



NAME
       ghc-pkg - GHC Haskell Cabal package manager

SYNOPSIS
       ghc-pkg action [OPTION]...

DESCRIPTION
       A  package is a library of Haskell modules known to the compiler.  The ghc-pkg tool allows adding or removing
       them from a package database. By default, the system-wide package database is modified, but alternatively the
       user's local package database or another specified file can be used.

       To  make  a  package available for ghc, ghc-pkg can be used to register it.  Unregistering it removes it from
       the database.  Also, packages can be hidden, to make ghc ignore the package by default, without  uninstalling
       it.   Exposing  a  package  makes  a hidden package available.  Additionally, ghc-pkg has various commands to
       query the package database.

       Where a package name is required, the package can be named in full including the version number  (e.g.   net‐
       work-1.0), or without the version number. Naming a package without the version number matches all versions of
       the package; the specified action will be applied to all the matching  packages.  A  package  specifier  that
       matches  all  version of the package can also be written pkg-*, to make it clearer that multiple packages are
       being matched.

ACTIONS
       register filename|-
              Register the package using the specified installed package description.

       update filename|-
              Register the package, overwriting any other package with the same name.

       unregister pkg-id
              Unregister the specified package.

       expose pkg-id
              Expose the specified package.

       hide pkg-id
              Hide the specified package

       list [pkg]...
              List registered packages in the global database, and also the user database if --user is given.  If  a
              package  name  is  given  all  the registered versions will be listed in ascending order.  Accepts the
              --simple-output flag.

       dot    Generate a graph of the package dependencies in a form suitable for input for the graphviz tools.  For
              example, to generate a PDF of the dependency graph:
                  dot  tred  dot -Tpdf >pkgs.pdf

       find-module module
              List  registered packages exposing module module in the global database, and also the user database if
              --user is given. All the registered versions will be listed in ascending order.  Accepts the --simple-
              output flag.

       latest pkg-id
              Prints the highest registered version of a package.

       check  Check  the  consistency of package dependencies and list broken packages.  Accepts the --simple-output
              flag.

       describe pkg
              Give the registered description for the specified package. The description is  returned  in  precisely
              the syntax required by ghc-pkg register.

       field pkg field
              Extract the specified field of the package description for the specified package.  Accepts comma-sepa‐
              rated multiple fields.

       dump   Dump the registered description for every package. This is like ghc-pkg describe '*', expect  that  it
              is intended to be used by tools that parse the results, rather than humans.

       recache
              Regenerate  the  package database cache.  This command should only be necessary if you added a package
              to the database by dropping a file into the database directory manyally.  By default, the global DB is
              recached; to recache a different DB use --user or --package-conf as appropriate.

OPTIONS
       When  asked  to modify a database (register, unregister, update, hide, expose, and also check), ghc-pkg modi‐
       fies the global database by default.  Specifying --user causes it to act on the user database, or  --package-
       conf can be used to act on another database entirely. When multiple of these options are given, the rightmost
       one is used as the database to act upon.

       Commands that query the package database (list, latest, describe, field) operate on  the  list  of  databases
       specified  by  the flags --user, --global, and --package-conf.  If none of these flags are given, the default
       is --global --user.

       --user Use the current user's package database.

       --global
              Use the global package database.

       -f FILE, --package-conf=FILE
              Use the specified package config file.

       --global-conf=FILE
              Location of the global package config.

       --force
              Ignore missing dependencies, directories, and libraries.

       --force-files
              Ignore missing directories and libraries only.

       -g, --auto-ghc-libs
              Automatically build libs for GHCi (with register).

       -?, --help
              Display a help message and exit.

       -V, --version
              Output version information and exit.

       --simple-output
              Print output in easy-to-parse format for some commands.

       --names-only
              Only print package names, not versions; can only be used with list --simple-output.

       --ignore-case
              Ignore case for substring matching.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       GHC_PACKAGE_PATH
              The GHC_PACKAGE_PATH environment variable may be set to a :-separated list of files containing package
              databases.  This  list  of package databases is used by ghc and ghc-pkg, with earlier databases in the
              list overriding later ones. This order was chosen to match the behaviour of the PATH environment vari‐
              able; think of it as a list of package databases that are searched left-to-right for packages.

              If  GHC_PACKAGE_PATH  ends  in  a  separator,  then  the default user and system package databases are
              appended, in that order. e.g. to augment the usual set of packages with a database of  your  own,  you
              could say:

                   export GHC_PACKAGE_PATH=$HOME/.my-ghc-packages.conf:

              To  check  whether  your GHC_PACKAGE_PATH setting is doing the right thing, ghc-pkg list will list all
              the databases in use, in the reverse order they are searched.

FILES
       Both of these locations are changed for Debian.  Upstream still keeps these under /usr.   Some  programs  may
       refer to that, but look in /var instead.

       /var/lib/ghc/package.conf
              Global package.conf file.

       /var/lib/ghc/package.conf.d/
              Directory for library specific package.conf files.  These are added to the global registry.

SEE ALSO
       ghc(1), runghc(1), hugs(1).

AUTHOR
       This  manual  page  was  written by Kari Pahula <kaol@debian.org>, for the Debian project (and may be used by
       others).



                                                     2010-01-27                                           ghc-pkg(1)
