giftopnm(1)                                    General Commands Manual                                   giftopnm(1)



NAME
       giftopnm - convert a GIF file into a portable anymap

SYNOPSIS
       giftopnm [--alphaout={alpha-filename,-}] [-verbose] [-comments] [-image N] [GIFfile]


DESCRIPTION
       This is a graphics format converter from the GIF format to the PNM (i.e. PBM, PGM, or PPM) format.

       If  the  image contains only black and maximally bright white, the output is PBM.  If the image contains more
       than those two colors, but only grays, the output is PGM.  If the image contains other colors, the output  is
       PPM.

       If  you  have  an animated GIF file, you can extract individual frames from it with gifsicle and then convert
       those using giftopnm.

       A GIF image contains rectangular pixels.  They all have the same aspect ratio, but may not  be  square  (it's
       actually  quite  unusual  for  them not to be square, but it could happen).  The pixels of a Netpbm image are
       always square.  Because of the engineering complexity to do otherwise, giftopnm converts a  GIF  image  to  a
       Netpbm  image  pixel-for-pixel.  This means if the GIF pixels are not square, the Netpbm output image has the
       wrong aspect ratio.  In this case, giftopnm issues an informational message telling you to  run  pnmscale  to
       correct the output.


OPTIONS
       --alphaout=alpha-filename
              giftopnm creates a PGM (portable graymap) file containing the alpha channel values in the input image.
              If the input image doesn't contain an alpha channel, the alpha-filename file contains all zero (trans‐
              parent)  alpha values.  If you don't specify --alphaout, giftopnm does not generate an alpha file, and
              if the input image has an alpha channel, giftopnm simply discards it.

              If you specify - as the filename, giftopnm writes the alpha output to Standard Output and discards the
              image.

              See pnmcomp(1) for one way to use the alpha output file.

       -verbose
              Produce verbose output about the GIF file input.

       -comments
              Only output GIF89 comment fields.

       -image N
              Output  the  specified  gif image from the input GIF archive (where N is '1', '2', '20'...).  Normally
              there is only one image per file, so this option is not needed.

       All flags can be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.


RESTRICTIONS
       This does not correctly handle the Plain Text Extension of the GIF89 standard, since I did not have any exam‐
       ple input files containing them.


SEE ALSO
       ppmtogif(1), ppmcolormask(1), pnmcomp(1), gifsicle(1) <http://www.lcdf.org/gifsicle>, ppm(5).

AUTHOR
       Copyright (c) 1993 by David Koblas (koblas@netcom.com)


LICENSE
       If  you  use  giftopnm, you are using a patent on the LZW compression method which is owned by Unisys, and in
       all probability you do not have a license from Unisys to do so.  Unisys typically asks $5000  for  a  license
       for  trivial  use  of  the  patent.  Unisys has never enforced the patent against trivial users, and has made
       statements that it is much less concerned about people using the patent  for  decompression  (which  is  what
       giftopnm does than for compression.  The patent expires in 2003 / 2004, depending on the country.

       Rumor has it that IBM also owns a patent covering giftopnm.

       A replacement for the GIF format that does not require any patents to use is the PNG format.



                                                   13 January 2001                                       giftopnm(1)
