GLIB-COMPILE-SCHEM(1)                               User Commands                              GLIB-COMPILE-SCHEM(1)



NAME
       glib-compile-schemas - GSettings schema compiler

SYNOPSIS
       glib-compile-schemas [OPTION...] {DIRECTORY}

DESCRIPTION
       glib-compile-schemas compiles all the GSettings XML schema files in DIRECTORY into a binary file with the
       name gschemas.compiled that can be used by GSettings. The XML schema files must have the filename extension
       .gschema.xml. For a detailed description of the XML file format, see the GSettings documentation.

       At runtime, GSettings looks for schemas in the glib-2.0/schemas subdirectories of all directories specified
       in the XDG_DATA_DIRS environment variable. The usual location to install schema files is
       /usr/share/glib-2.0/schemas.

       In addition to schema files, glib-compile-schemas reads 'vendor override' files, which are key files that can
       override default values for keys in the schemas. The group names in the key files are the schema id, and the
       values are written in serialized GVariant form. Vendor override files must have the filename extension
       .gschema.override.

       By convention, vendor override files begin with nn_ where nn is a number from 00 to 99. Higher numbered files
       have higher priority (eg: if the same override is made in a file numbered 10 and then again in a file
       numbered 20, the override from 20 will take precedence).

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
           Print help and exit

       --targetdir=TARGET
           Store gschemas.compiled in the TARGET directory instead of DIRECTORY.

       --dry-run
           Don't write gschemas.compiled. This option can be used to check .gschema.xml sources for errors.

       --allow-any-name
           Do not enforce restrictions on key names. Note that this option is purely to facility the transition from
           GConf, and will be removed at some time in the future.



GIO                                                                                            GLIB-COMPILE-SCHEM(1)
