GLIB-COMPILE-RESOU(1)                               User Commands                              GLIB-COMPILE-RESOU(1)



NAME
       glib-compile-resources - GLib resource compiler

SYNOPSIS
       glib-compile-resources [OPTION...] {FILE}

DESCRIPTION
       glib-compile-resources reads the resource description from FILE and the files that it references and creates
       a binary resource bundle that is suitable for use with the GResource API. The resulting bundle is then
       written out as-is, or as C source for linking into an application.

       The XML resource files normally have the filename extension .gresource.xml. For a detailed description of the
       XML file format, see the GResource documentation.

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
           Print help and exit

       --target=TARGET
           Store the compiled resources in the file TARGET. If not specified a filename based on the FILE basename
           is used.

       --sourcedir=DIRECTORY
           The files referenced in FILE are loaded from this directory. If not specified, the current directory is
           used.

       --generate
           Write the output file in the format selected for by its filename extension:

           .c
               C source

           .h
               C header

           .gresource
               resource bundle


       --generate-source
           Instead of a writing the resource bundle in binary form create a C source file that contains the resource
           bundle. This can then be compiled into an application for easy access.

       --generate-header
           Generate a header file for use with C code generated by --generate-source.

       --generate-dependencies
           Prints the list of files that the resource bundle references to standard output. This can be used to
           track dependencies in the build system. For example, the following make rule would mark test.gresource as
           depending on all the files that test.gresource.xml includes, so that is is automatically rebuilt if any
           of them change:

               test.gresource: test.gresource.xml $(shell $(GLIB_COMPILE_RESOURCES) --generate-dependencies test.gresource.xml)

           Note that this may or may not be portable to non-GNU make.

       --c-name
           Specify the prefix used for the C identifiers in the code generated by --generate-source and
           --generate-header.

       --manual-register
           By default code generated by --generate-source uses automatic initialization of the resource. This works
           on most systems by using the compiler support for constructors. However, some (uncommon) compilers may
           not support this, you can then specify --manual-register, which will generate custom register and
           unregister functions that your code can manually call at initialization and uninitialization time.

       --internal
           By default code generated by --generate-source declares all initialization functions as extern. So they
           are exported unless this is prevented by a link script or other means. Since libraries usually want to
           use the functions only internally it can be more useful to declare them as G_GNUC_INTERNAL which is what
           --internal does.

ENVIRONMENT
       XMLLINT
           The full path to the xmllint executable. This is used to preprocess resources with the xml-stripblanks
           preprocessing option. If this environment variable is not set, xmllint is searched in the PATH.

       GDK_PIXBUF_PIXDATA
           The full path to the gdk-pixbuf-pixdata executable. This is used to preprocess resources with the
           to-pixdata preprocessing option. If this environment variable is not set, gdk-pixbuf-pixdata is searched
           in the PATH.



GIO                                                                                            GLIB-COMPILE-RESOU(1)
