GNOME-KEYRING-DAEM(1)                               User Commands                              GNOME-KEYRING-DAEM(1)



NAME
       gnome-keyring-daemon - The gnome-keyring daemon

SYNOPSIS
       gnome-keyring [--replace] [--unlock]

DESCRIPTION
       The gnome-keyring-daemon is a service that stores your passwords and secrets. It is normally started
       automatically when a user logs into a desktop session.

       The gnome-keyring-daemon implements the DBus Secret Service API, and you can use tools like seahorse or
       secret-tool to interact with it.

       The daemon also implements a GnuPG and SSH agent both of which automatically load the user's keys, and prompt
       for passwords when necessary.

       The daemon will print out various environment variables which should be set in the user's environment, in
       order to interact with the daemon.

OPTIONS
       The various startup arguments below can be used:

       --components=ssh,secrets,gpg,pkcs11
           Ask the daemon to only initialize certain components. Valid components are ssh, gpg, secrets, pkcs11.

           By default all components are initialized.

       --control-directory=/path/to/directory
           Use this directory for creating communication sockets. By default a temporary directory is automatically
           created.

       --daemonize
           Run as a real daemon, disconnected from the terminal.

       --foreground
           Run in the foreground, and do not fork or become a daemon.

       --login
           This argument tells the daemon it is being run by PAM. It reads all of stdin (including any newlines) as
           a login password and does not complete actual initialization.

           The daemon should later be initialized with a gnome-keyring-daemon --start invocation.

           This option may not be used together with either the --replace or --start arguments.

       --replace
           Try to replace a running keyring daemon, and assume its environment avriables. A successful replacement
           depends on the GNOMKE_KEYRING_CONTROL environment variable being set by an earlier daemon.

           This option may not be used together with either the --login or --start arguments.

       --start
           Connect to an already running daemon and initialize it. This is often used to complete initialization of
           a daemon that was started by PAM using the --login argument.

           This option may not be used together with either the --login or --replace arguments.

       --version
           Print out the gnome-keyring version and then exit.

BUGS
       Please send bug reports to either the distribution bug tracker or the upstream bug tracker at
       https://bugzilla.gnome.org/enter_bug.cgi?product=gnome-keyring

SEE ALSO
       secret-tool(1), seahorse(1)

       Further details available in the realmd online documentation at
       http://standards.freedesktop.org/secret-service/



gnome-keyring                                                                                  GNOME-KEYRING-DAEM(1)
