GNUPLOT(1)                                     General Commands Manual                                    GNUPLOT(1)



NAME
       gnuplot - an interactive plotting program

SYNOPSIS
       gnuplot [X11 options] [options] [file ...]

DESCRIPTION
       Gnuplot is a command-driven interactive plotting program.

       If  file  names  are  given  on the command line, gnuplot loads each file with the load command, in the order
       specified, and exits after the last file is processed.  If no files are given, gnuplot prompts  for  interac‐
       tive commands.

       Here are some of its features:

       Plots  any  number of functions, built up of C operators, C math library functions, and some things C doesn't
       have like **, sgn(), etc.

       User-defined constants and functions.

       All computations performed in the complex domain.  Just the real part is plotted by  default,  but  functions
       like imag() and abs() and arg() are available to override this.

       Many  presentation styles for plotting user data from files, including surface-fitting, error bars, boxplots,
       histograms, heat maps, and simple manipulation of image data.  There is an on-line demo collection at
       http://gnuplot.info/demo

       Nonlinear least-squares fitting.

       2D and 3D plots with mouse-controlled zoom and rotation.

       Shell escapes and command line substitution.

       Load and save capability.

       Support for a huge variety of output devices and file formats.

OPTIONS
       -p, --persist lets plot windows survive after main gnuplot program exits.

       -d, --default settings.  Do not read from gnuplotrc or ~/.gnuplot on entry.

       -e "command list" executes the requested commands before loading the next input file.

       -h, --help print summary of usage

       -V show current version

X11 OPTIONS
       Gnuplot provides the x11 terminal type for use with X servers. This terminal type  is  set  automatically  at
       startup  if  the  GNUTERM environment variable is set to x11, or if the -display command line option is used.
       For terminal type x11, gnuplot accepts the standard X Toolkit options and resources such as  geometry,  font,
       and background. See the X(1) man page for a description of common options.  For additional X options specific
       to gnuplot, type help x11 on the gnuplot command line.

ENVIRONMENT
       A number of shell environment variables are understood by gnuplot.  None of these are required.

       GNUTERM
              The name of the terminal type to be used by default.  This can be overridden by the gnuplotrc or .gnu‐
              plot start-up files and, of course, by later explicit "set terminal" commands.

       GNUHELP
              The pathname of the HELP file (gnuplot.gih).

       HOME   The name of a directory to search for a .gnuplot file.

       PAGER  An output filter for help messages.

       SHELL  The program used for the "shell" command.

       FIT_SCRIPT
              Specifies a gnuplot command to be executed when a fit is interrupted---see "help fit".

       FIT_LOG
              The name of the logfile maintained by fit.

       GNUPLOT_LIB
              Additional  search directories for data and command files. The variable may contain a single directory
              name, or a list of directories separated by ':'. The contents  of  GNUPLOT_LIB  are  appended  to  the
              "loadpath" variable, but not saved with the "save" and "save set" commands.

       GDFONTPATH
              Several  gnuplot  terminal  drivers access TrueType fonts via the gd library.  This variable gives the
              font search path for these drivers.

       GNUPLOT_DEFAULT_GDFONT
              The default font for the terminal drivers that access TrueType fonts via the gd library.

       GNUPLOT_FONTPATH
              The font search path used by the postscript terminal. The format is the same as for  GNUPLOT_LIB.  The
              contents  of  GNUPLOT_FONTPATH  are appended to the "fontpath" variable, but not saved with the "save"
              and "save set" commands.

       GNUPLOT_PS_DIR
              Used by the postscript driver to locate external prologue files. Depending on the build process,  gnu‐
              plot  contains either a builtin copy of those files or simply a default hardcoded path. Use this vari‐
              able to test the postscript terminal with custom prologue files. See "help postscript prologue".

FILES
       gnuplotrc
              When gnuplot is run, it first looks for a system-wide initialization file named gnuplotrc.  The  stan‐
              dard location of this file expected by the program is reported by the "show loadpath" command.

       .gnuplot
              After  loading the system-wide initialization file, if any, Gnuplot looks for a private initialization
              file in the HOME directory.  It may contain any legal gnuplot commands, but typically they are limited
              to setting the preferred terminal and line types and defining frequently-used functions or variables.

       fit.log
              The default name of the logfile output by the "fit" command.

AUTHORS
       Original authors: Thomas Williams and Colin Kelley.  Starting with gnuplot version 3.8, the project source is
       cooperatively maintained on SourceForge by a large number of contributors.

BUGS
       Please report bugs using the project bug tracker on SourceForge.

SEE ALSO
       See the printed manual or the on-line help for details on specific commands.  Project web site at http://gnu‐
       plot.info



4th Berkeley Distribution                           2 October 2013                                        GNUPLOT(1)
