GPGV(1)                                           GNU Privacy Guard                                          GPGV(1)



NAME
       gpgv - Verify OpenPGP signatures

SYNOPSIS
       gpgv [options] signed_files





DESCRIPTION
       gpgv is an OpenPGP signature verification tool.

       This  program  is actually a stripped-down version of gpg which is only able to check signatures. It is some‐
       what smaller than the fully-blown gpg and uses a different (and simpler) way to check that  the  public  keys
       used  to  make  the  signature  are valid. There are no configuration files and only a few options are imple‐
       mented.

       gpgv assumes that all keys in the keyring are trustworthy.  That does also mean that it does  not  check  for
       expired or revoked keys.

       By  default  a  keyring  named  ‘trustedkeys.gpg’ is used.  This default keyring is assumed to be in the home
       directory of GnuPG, either the default home directory or the one set by an option or an environment variable.
       The option --keyring may be used to specify a different keyring or even multiple keyrings.




RETURN VALUE
       The  program  returns 0 if everything is fine, 1 if at least one signature was bad, and other error codes for
       fatal errors.


OPTIONS
       gpgv recognizes these options:



       --verbose

       -v     Gives more information during processing. If used twice, the input data is listed in detail.


       --quiet

       -q     Try to be as quiet as possible.


       --keyring file
              Add file to the list of keyrings.  If file begins with a tilde and a slash, these are replaced by  the
              HOME  directory.  If  the filename does not contain a slash, it is assumed to be in the home-directory
              ("~/.gnupg" if --homedir is not used).


       --status-fd n
              Write special status strings to the file descriptor n.  See the file DETAILS in the documentation  for
              a listing of them.


       --logger-fd n
              Write log output to file descriptor n and not to stderr.


       --ignore-time-conflict
              GnuPG  normally  checks that the timestamps associated with keys and signatures have plausible values.
              However, sometimes a signature seems to be older than the key due to clock problems. This option turns
              these checks into warnings.


       --homedir dir
              Set  the name of the home directory to dir. If this option is not used, the home directory defaults to
              ‘~/.gnupg’.  It is only recognized when given on the command line.  It also overrides any home  direc‐
              tory  stated through the environment variable ‘GNUPGHOME’ or (on Windows systems) by means of the Reg‐
              istry entry HKCU\Software\GNU\GnuPG:HomeDir.

              On Windows systems it is possible to install GnuPG as a portable application.  In this case only  this
              command line option is considered, all other ways to set a home directory are ignored.

              To  install  GnuPG as a portable application under Windows, create an empty file name ‘gpgconf.ctl’ in
              the same directory as the tool ‘gpgconf.exe’.  The root of the installation is  than  that  directory;
              or,  if ‘gpgconf.exe’ has been installed directly below a directory named ‘bin’, its parent directory.
              You also need to make sure that the following directories exist and are writable: ‘ROOT/home’ for  the
              GnuPG home and ‘ROOT/var/cache/gnupg’ for internal cache files.



EXAMPLES
       gpgv pgpfile

       gpgv sigfile [datafile]
              Verify  the  signature  of the file. The second form is used for detached signatures, where sigfile is
              the detached signature (either ASCII-armored or binary) and datafile  contains  the  signed  data;  if
              datafile  is  "-"  the signed data is expected on stdin; if datafile is not given the name of the file
              holding the signed data is constructed by cutting off the extension (".asc", ".sig" or  ".sign")  from
              sigfile.



FILES
       ~/.gnupg/trustedkeys.gpg
              The default keyring with the allowed keys.



ENVIRONMENT
       HOME   Used to locate the default home directory.


       GNUPGHOME
              If set directory used instead of "~/.gnupg".



SEE ALSO
       gpg2(1)

       The  full  documentation  for this tool is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If GnuPG and the info program are
       properly installed at your site, the command

         info gnupg

       should give you access to the complete manual including a menu structure and an index.




GnuPG 1.4.16                                         2016-08-18                                              GPGV(1)
