GREP(1)                                        General Commands Manual                                       GREP(1)



NAME
       grep, egrep, fgrep, rgrep - print lines matching a pattern

SYNOPSIS
       grep [OPTIONS] PATTERN [FILE...]
       grep [OPTIONS] [-e PATTERN | -f FILE] [FILE...]

DESCRIPTION
       grep searches the named input FILEs (or standard input if no files are named, or if a single hyphen-minus (-)
       is given as file name) for lines containing a match to the  given  PATTERN.   By  default,  grep  prints  the
       matching lines.

       In  addition,  three  variant  programs  egrep, fgrep and rgrep are available.  egrep is the same as grep -E.
       fgrep is the same as grep -F.  rgrep is the same as grep -r.  Direct invocation as either egrep or  fgrep  is
       deprecated, but is provided to allow historical applications that rely on them to run unmodified.

OPTIONS

       --help Print  a  usage  message briefly summarizing these command-line options and the bug-reporting address,
              then exit.

       -V, --version
              Print the version number of grep to the  standard  output  stream.   This  version  number  should  be
              included in all bug reports (see below).

       -E, --extended-regexp
              Interpret PATTERN as an extended regular expression (ERE, see below).  (-E is specified by POSIX.)

       -F, --fixed-strings
              Interpret  PATTERN  as  a list of fixed strings, separated by newlines, any of which is to be matched.
              (-F is specified by POSIX.)

       -G, --basic-regexp
              Interpret PATTERN as a basic regular expression (BRE, see below).  This is the default.

       -P, --perl-regexp
              Interpret PATTERN as a Perl regular expression (PCRE, see below).  This  is  highly  experimental  and
              grep -P may warn of unimplemented features.

       -e PATTERN, --regexp=PATTERN
              Use  PATTERN  as  the  pattern.  This can be used to specify multiple search patterns, or to protect a
              pattern beginning with a hyphen (-).  (-e is specified by POSIX.)

       -f FILE, --file=FILE
              Obtain patterns from FILE, one per line.  The empty file contains zero patterns, and therefore matches
              nothing.  (-f is specified by POSIX.)

       -i, --ignore-case
              Ignore case distinctions in both the PATTERN and the input files.  (-i is specified by POSIX.)

       -v, --invert-match
              Invert the sense of matching, to select non-matching lines.  (-v is specified by POSIX.)

       -w, --word-regexp
              Select  only  those  lines  containing  matches  that form whole words.  The test is that the matching
              substring must either be at the  beginning  of  the  line,  or  preceded  by  a  non-word  constituent
              character.   Similarly, it must be either at the end of the line or followed by a non-word constituent
              character.  Word-constituent characters are letters, digits, and the underscore.

       -x, --line-regexp
              Select only those matches that exactly match the whole line.  (-x is specified by POSIX.)

       -y     Obsolete synonym for -i.

       -c, --count
              Suppress normal output; instead print a count of matching lines for each input  file.   With  the  -v,
              --invert-match option (see below), count non-matching lines.  (-c is specified by POSIX.)

       --color[=WHEN], --colour[=WHEN]
              Surround  the  matched  (non-empty)  strings, matching lines, context lines, file names, line numbers,
              byte offsets, and separators (for fields and groups of context lines) with escape sequences to display
              them  in  color on the terminal.  The colors are defined by the environment variable GREP_COLORS.  The
              deprecated environment variable GREP_COLOR is still supported, but its setting does not have priority.
              WHEN is never, always, or auto.

       -L, --files-without-match
              Suppress  normal output; instead print the name of each input file from which no output would normally
              have been printed.  The scanning will stop on the first match.

       -l, --files-with-matches
              Suppress normal output; instead print the name of each input file from  which  output  would  normally
              have been printed.  The scanning will stop on the first match.  (-l is specified by POSIX.)

       -m NUM, --max-count=NUM
              Stop reading a file after NUM matching lines.  If the input is standard input from a regular file, and
              NUM matching lines are output, grep ensures that the standard input is positioned to  just  after  the
              last matching line before exiting, regardless of the presence of trailing context lines.  This enables
              a calling process to resume a search.  When grep stops  after  NUM  matching  lines,  it  outputs  any
              trailing  context  lines.   When  the  -c or --count option is also used, grep does not output a count
              greater than NUM.  When the -v or --invert-match option is also used, grep stops after outputting  NUM
              non-matching lines.

       -o, --only-matching
              Print  only the matched (non-empty) parts of a matching line, with each such part on a separate output
              line.

       -q, --quiet, --silent
              Quiet; do not write anything to standard output.  Exit immediately with zero status if  any  match  is
              found,  even  if an error was detected.  Also see the -s or --no-messages option.  (-q is specified by
              POSIX.)

       -s, --no-messages
              Suppress error messages about nonexistent or unreadable files.  Portability note: unlike GNU grep, 7th
              Edition  Unix  grep  did not conform to POSIX, because it lacked -q and its -s option behaved like GNU
              grep's -q option.  USG-style grep also lacked -q but its -s option behaved like  GNU  grep.   Portable
              shell  scripts  should avoid both -q and -s and should redirect standard and error output to /dev/null
              instead.  (-s is specified by POSIX.)

       -b, --byte-offset
              Print  the  0-based  byte  offset  within  the  input  file  before  each  line  of  output.   If   -o
              (--only-matching) is specified, print the offset of the matching part itself.

       -H, --with-filename
              Print the file name for each match.  This is the default when there is more than one file to search.

       -h, --no-filename
              Suppress  the  prefixing of file names on output.  This is the default when there is only one file (or
              only standard input) to search.

       --label=LABEL
              Display input actually coming from standard input as input coming from file LABEL.  This is especially
              useful when implementing tools like zgrep, e.g., gzip -cd foo.gz | grep --label=foo -H something.  See
              also the -H option.

       -n, --line-number
              Prefix each line of output with the 1-based line number within its input file.  (-n  is  specified  by
              POSIX.)

       -T, --initial-tab
              Make sure that the first character of actual line content lies on a tab stop, so that the alignment of
              tabs looks normal.  This is useful with options that prefix their output to the actual content: -H,-n,
              and  -b.  In order to improve the probability that lines from a single file will all start at the same
              column, this also causes the line number and byte offset (if present) to be printed in a minimum  size
              field width.

       -u, --unix-byte-offsets
              Report  Unix-style byte offsets.  This switch causes grep to report byte offsets as if the file were a
              Unix-style text file, i.e., with CR characters stripped off.  This will produce results  identical  to
              running  grep  on  a Unix machine.  This option has no effect unless -b option is also used; it has no
              effect on platforms other than MS-DOS and MS-Windows.

       -Z, --null
              Output a zero byte (the ASCII NUL character) instead of the character that  normally  follows  a  file
              name.   For  example,  grep -lZ outputs a zero byte after each file name instead of the usual newline.
              This option makes the output unambiguous, even in  the  presence  of  file  names  containing  unusual
              characters  like newlines.  This option can be used with commands like find -print0, perl -0, sort -z,
              and xargs -0 to process arbitrary file names, even those that contain newline characters.

       -A NUM, --after-context=NUM
              Print NUM lines of trailing context after matching lines.  Places a line containing a group  separator
              (--)  between contiguous groups of matches.  With the -o or --only-matching option, this has no effect
              and a warning is given.

       -B NUM, --before-context=NUM
              Print NUM lines of leading context before matching lines.  Places a line containing a group  separator
              (--)  between contiguous groups of matches.  With the -o or --only-matching option, this has no effect
              and a warning is given.

       -C NUM, -NUM, --context=NUM
              Print NUM lines of output context.  Places a line containing a group separator (--) between contiguous
              groups of matches.  With the -o or --only-matching option, this has no effect and a warning is given.

       -a, --text
              Process a binary file as if it were text; this is equivalent to the --binary-files=text option.

       --binary-files=TYPE
              If  the first few bytes of a file indicate that the file contains binary data, assume that the file is
              of type TYPE.  By default, TYPE is binary, and grep normally outputs either a one-line message  saying
              that  a  binary  file  matches,  or  no  message if there is no match.  If TYPE is without-match, grep
              assumes that a binary file does not match; this is equivalent to the -I option.  If TYPE is text, grep
              processes  a  binary  file  as  if  it  were text; this is equivalent to the -a option.  Warning: grep
              --binary-files=text might output binary garbage, which can have nasty side effects if the output is  a
              terminal and if the terminal driver interprets some of it as commands.

       -D ACTION, --devices=ACTION
              If  an  input file is a device, FIFO or socket, use ACTION to process it.  By default, ACTION is read,
              which means that devices are read just as if they were ordinary files.  If ACTION is skip, devices are
              silently skipped.

       -d ACTION, --directories=ACTION
              If  an  input  file  is a directory, use ACTION to process it.  By default, ACTION is read, i.e., read
              directories just as if they were ordinary files.  If ACTION is skip, silently  skip  directories.   If
              ACTION  is recurse, read all files under each directory, recursively, following symbolic links only if
              they are on the command line.  This is equivalent to the -r option.

       --exclude=GLOB
              Skip files whose base name matches GLOB (using wildcard matching).  A file-name glob can use *, ?, and
              [...]  as wildcards, and \ to quote a wildcard or backslash character literally.

       --exclude-from=FILE
              Skip  files whose base name matches any of the file-name globs read from FILE (using wildcard matching
              as described under --exclude).

       --exclude-dir=DIR
              Exclude directories matching the pattern DIR from recursive searches.

       -I     Process a  binary  file  as  if  it  did  not  contain  matching  data;  this  is  equivalent  to  the
              --binary-files=without-match option.

       --include=GLOB
              Search only files whose base name matches GLOB (using wildcard matching as described under --exclude).

       -r, --recursive
              Read  all  files  under  each directory, recursively, following symbolic links only if they are on the
              command line.  This is equivalent to the -d recurse option.

       -R, --dereference-recursive
              Read all files under each directory, recursively.  Follow all symbolic links, unlike -r.

       --line-buffered
              Use line buffering on output.  This can cause a performance penalty.

       --mmap If possible, use the mmap(2) system call to read input, instead of the default  read(2)  system  call.
              In  some  situations,  --mmap yields better performance.  However, --mmap can cause undefined behavior
              (including core dumps) if an input file shrinks while grep is operating, or if an I/O error occurs.

       -U, --binary
              Treat the file(s) as binary.  By default, under MS-DOS and MS-Windows, grep guesses the file  type  by
              looking  at  the  contents  of  the first 32KB read from the file.  If grep decides the file is a text
              file, it strips the CR characters from the original file contents (to make regular expressions with  ^
              and  $  work  correctly).   Specifying  -U  overrules this guesswork, causing all files to be read and
              passed to the matching mechanism verbatim; if the file is a text file with CR/LF pairs at the  end  of
              each  line,  this will cause some regular expressions to fail.  This option has no effect on platforms
              other than MS-DOS and MS-Windows.

       -z, --null-data
              Treat the input as a set of lines, each terminated by a zero byte (the ASCII NUL character) instead of
              a  newline.   Like  the  -Z  or  --null  option, this option can be used with commands like sort -z to
              process arbitrary file names.

REGULAR EXPRESSIONS
       A regular expression is a pattern that describes a set  of  strings.   Regular  expressions  are  constructed
       analogously to arithmetic expressions, by using various operators to combine smaller expressions.

       grep  understands  three different versions of regular expression syntax: “basic” (BRE), “extended” (ERE) and
       “perl” (PRCE). In GNU grep, there is no difference in available  functionality  between  basic  and  extended
       syntaxes.   In other implementations, basic regular expressions are less powerful.  The following description
       applies to extended regular expressions; differences for basic regular expressions are summarized afterwards.
       Perl   regular   expressions   give  additional  functionality,  and  are  documented  in  pcresyntax(3)  and
       pcrepattern(3), but only work if pcre is available in the system.

       The fundamental building blocks are the regular expressions that match a single character.  Most  characters,
       including  all  letters  and  digits, are regular expressions that match themselves.  Any meta-character with
       special meaning may be quoted by preceding it with a backslash.

       The period . matches any single character.

   Character Classes and Bracket Expressions
       A bracket expression is a list of characters enclosed by [ and ].  It matches any single  character  in  that
       list;  if  the first character of the list is the caret ^ then it matches any character not in the list.  For
       example, the regular expression [0123456789] matches any single digit.

       Within a bracket expression, a range expression consists of two characters separated by a hyphen.  It matches
       any  single character that sorts between the two characters, inclusive, using the locale's collating sequence
       and character set.  For example, in the default C locale, [a-d] is equivalent to [abcd].  Many  locales  sort
       characters in dictionary order, and in these locales [a-d] is typically not equivalent to [abcd]; it might be
       equivalent to [aBbCcDd], for example.  To obtain the traditional interpretation of bracket  expressions,  you
       can use the C locale by setting the LC_ALL environment variable to the value C.

       Finally,  certain  named  classes of characters are predefined within bracket expressions, as follows.  Their
       names are self explanatory, and they are [:alnum:], [:alpha:], [:cntrl:],  [:digit:],  [:graph:],  [:lower:],
       [:print:],  [:punct:],  [:space:],  [:upper:],  and [:xdigit:].  For example, [[:alnum:]] means the character
       class of numbers and letters in the current locale. In the C locale and ASCII character set encoding, this is
       the  same  as  [0-9A-Za-z].  (Note that the brackets in these class names are part of the symbolic names, and
       must be included in addition to the brackets delimiting the bracket expression.)  Most  meta-characters  lose
       their  special  meaning  inside  bracket  expressions.   To  include  a literal ] place it first in the list.
       Similarly, to include a literal ^ place it anywhere but first.  Finally, to include  a  literal  -  place  it
       last.

   Anchoring
       The  caret  ^  and  the  dollar  sign  $  are meta-characters that respectively match the empty string at the
       beginning and end of a line.

   The Backslash Character and Special Expressions
       The symbols \< and \> respectively match the empty string at the beginning and end of a word.  The symbol  \b
       matches the empty string at the edge of a word, and \B matches the empty string provided it's not at the edge
       of a word.  The symbol \w is a synonym for [_[:alnum:]] and \W is a synonym for [^_[:alnum:]].

   Repetition
       A regular expression may be followed by one of several repetition operators:
       ?      The preceding item is optional and matched at most once.
       *      The preceding item will be matched zero or more times.
       +      The preceding item will be matched one or more times.
       {n}    The preceding item is matched exactly n times.
       {n,}   The preceding item is matched n or more times.
       {,m}   The preceding item is matched at most m times.  This is a GNU extension.
       {n,m}  The preceding item is matched at least n times, but not more than m times.

   Concatenation
       Two regular expressions may be concatenated; the resulting regular expression matches any  string  formed  by
       concatenating two substrings that respectively match the concatenated expressions.

   Alternation
       Two  regular  expressions may be joined by the infix operator |; the resulting regular expression matches any
       string matching either alternate expression.

   Precedence
       Repetition takes precedence over concatenation, which in turn takes precedence  over  alternation.   A  whole
       expression may be enclosed in parentheses to override these precedence rules and form a subexpression.

   Back References and Subexpressions
       The  back-reference  \n,  where  n  is  a  single  digit, matches the substring previously matched by the nth
       parenthesized subexpression of the regular expression.

   Basic vs Extended Regular Expressions
       In basic regular expressions the meta-characters ?, +, {, |, (, and ) lose their special meaning; instead use
       the backslashed versions \?, \+, \{, \|, \(, and \).

       Traditional egrep did not support the { meta-character, and some egrep implementations support \{ instead, so
       portable scripts should avoid { in grep -E patterns and should use [{] to match a literal {.

       GNU grep -E attempts to support traditional usage by assuming that { is not special if it would be the  start
       of  an  invalid interval specification.  For example, the command grep -E '{1' searches for the two-character
       string {1 instead of reporting a syntax error in the regular expression.  POSIX allows this  behavior  as  an
       extension, but portable scripts should avoid it.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The behavior of grep is affected by the following environment variables.

       The  locale  for  category  LC_foo  is specified by examining the three environment variables LC_ALL, LC_foo,
       LANG, in that order.  The first of these variables that is set specifies the locale.  For example, if  LC_ALL
       is not set, but LC_MESSAGES is set to pt_BR, then the Brazilian Portuguese locale is used for the LC_MESSAGES
       category.  The C locale is used if none of these environment variables are set, if the locale catalog is  not
       installed, or if grep was not compiled with national language support (NLS).

       GREP_OPTIONS
              This  variable  specifies default options to be placed in front of any explicit options.  For example,
              if GREP_OPTIONS is '--binary-files=without-match --directories=skip',  grep  behaves  as  if  the  two
              options  --binary-files=without-match  and  --directories=skip  had been specified before any explicit
              options.  Option specifications are separated by whitespace.  A backslash escapes the next  character,
              so it can be used to specify an option containing whitespace or a backslash.

       GREP_COLOR
              This  variable  specifies  the  color used to highlight matched (non-empty) text.  It is deprecated in
              favor of GREP_COLORS, but still supported.  The mt,  ms,  and  mc  capabilities  of  GREP_COLORS  have
              priority  over it.  It can only specify the color used to highlight the matching non-empty text in any
              matching line (a selected line when the -v command-line option is omitted, or a context line  when  -v
              is specified).  The default is 01;31, which means a bold red foreground text on the terminal's default
              background.

       GREP_COLORS
              Specifies the colors and other attributes used to highlight various parts of the output.  Its value is
              a        colon-separated        list        of        capabilities        that       defaults       to
              ms=01;31:mc=01;31:sl=:cx=:fn=35:ln=32:bn=32:se=36 with the rv  and  ne  boolean  capabilities  omitted
              (i.e., false).  Supported capabilities are as follows.

              sl=    SGR substring for whole selected lines (i.e., matching lines when the -v command-line option is
                     omitted, or non-matching lines when -v is specified).  If however the boolean rv capability and
                     the  -v  command-line  option are both specified, it applies to context matching lines instead.
                     The default is empty (i.e., the terminal's default color pair).

              cx=    SGR substring for whole context lines (i.e., non-matching lines when the -v command-line option
                     is  omitted, or matching lines when -v is specified).  If however the boolean rv capability and
                     the -v command-line option are both  specified,  it  applies  to  selected  non-matching  lines
                     instead.  The default is empty (i.e., the terminal's default color pair).

              rv     Boolean  value  that  reverses (swaps) the meanings of the sl= and cx= capabilities when the -v
                     command-line option is specified.  The default is false (i.e., the capability is omitted).

              mt=01;31
                     SGR substring for matching non-empty text in any matching line (i.e., a selected line when  the
                     -v  command-line  option  is omitted, or a context line when -v is specified).  Setting this is
                     equivalent to setting both ms= and mc= at once to the same value.  The default is  a  bold  red
                     text foreground over the current line background.

              ms=01;31
                     SGR  substring  for matching non-empty text in a selected line.  (This is only used when the -v
                     command-line option is omitted.)  The effect of the sl=  (or  cx=  if  rv)  capability  remains
                     active  when  this  kicks  in.  The default is a bold red text foreground over the current line
                     background.

              mc=01;31
                     SGR substring for matching non-empty text in a context line.  (This is only used  when  the  -v
                     command-line  option  is  specified.)   The effect of the cx= (or sl= if rv) capability remains
                     active when this kicks in.  The default is a bold red text foreground  over  the  current  line
                     background.

              fn=35  SGR  substring  for  file  names  prefixing  any  content  line.  The default is a magenta text
                     foreground over the terminal's default background.

              ln=32  SGR substring for line numbers prefixing any  content  line.   The  default  is  a  green  text
                     foreground over the terminal's default background.

              bn=32  SGR  substring  for  byte  offsets  prefixing  any  content  line.  The default is a green text
                     foreground over the terminal's default background.

              se=36  SGR substring for separators that are  inserted  between  selected  line  fields  (:),  between
                     context  line  fields,  (-),  and  between  groups  of  adjacent  lines when nonzero context is
                     specified (--).  The default is a cyan text foreground over the terminal's default background.

              ne     Boolean value that prevents clearing to the end of line using  Erase  in  Line  (EL)  to  Right
                     (\33[K)  each  time  a  colorized  item  ends.   This is needed on terminals on which EL is not
                     supported.  It is otherwise useful on terminals for which the  back_color_erase  (bce)  boolean
                     terminfo  capability  does  not  apply,  when  the  chosen  highlight  colors do not affect the
                     background, or when EL is too slow or causes too much flicker.  The default is false (i.e., the
                     capability is omitted).

              Note  that  boolean  capabilities  have  no =...  part.  They are omitted (i.e., false) by default and
              become true when specified.

              See the Select Graphic Rendition (SGR) section in the documentation of the text terminal that is  used
              for  permitted  values and their meaning as character attributes.  These substring values are integers
              in decimal representation and can be concatenated with semicolons.  grep takes care of assembling  the
              result  into  a  complete SGR sequence (\33[...m).  Common values to concatenate include 1 for bold, 4
              for underline, 5 for blink, 7 for inverse, 39 for default foreground color, 30 to  37  for  foreground
              colors,  90  to  97 for 16-color mode foreground colors, 38;5;0 to 38;5;255 for 88-color and 256-color
              modes foreground colors, 49 for default background color, 40 to 47 for background colors, 100  to  107
              for  16-color  mode  background  colors,  and  48;5;0  to  48;5;255  for  88-color and 256-color modes
              background colors.

       LC_ALL, LC_COLLATE, LANG
              These variables specify the locale  for  the  LC_COLLATE  category,  which  determines  the  collating
              sequence used to interpret range expressions like [a-z].

       LC_ALL, LC_CTYPE, LANG
              These variables specify the locale for the LC_CTYPE category, which determines the type of characters,
              e.g., which characters are whitespace.

       LC_ALL, LC_MESSAGES, LANG
              These variables specify the locale for the LC_MESSAGES category, which determines  the  language  that
              grep uses for messages.  The default C locale uses American English messages.

       POSIXLY_CORRECT
              If  set,  grep behaves as POSIX requires; otherwise, grep behaves more like other GNU programs.  POSIX
              requires that options that follow file names must be treated as file names; by default,  such  options
              are  permuted  to the front of the operand list and are treated as options.  Also, POSIX requires that
              unrecognized options be diagnosed as “illegal”, but since they are not  really  against  the  law  the
              default is to diagnose them as “invalid”.  POSIXLY_CORRECT also disables _N_GNU_nonoption_argv_flags_,
              described below.

       _N_GNU_nonoption_argv_flags_
              (Here N is grep's numeric process ID.)  If the ith character of this environment variable's  value  is
              1, do not consider the ith operand of grep to be an option, even if it appears to be one.  A shell can
              put this variable in the environment for each command it  runs,  specifying  which  operands  are  the
              results of file name wildcard expansion and therefore should not be treated as options.  This behavior
              is available only with the GNU C library, and only when POSIXLY_CORRECT is not set.

EXIT STATUS
       The exit status is 0 if selected lines are found, and 1 if not found.  If an error occurred the  exit  status
       is 2.  (Note: POSIX error handling code should check for '2' or greater.)

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 1998-2000, 2002, 2005-2014 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

       This  is  free  software;  see  the  source  for  copying  conditions.   There  is  NO warranty; not even for
       MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

BUGS
   Reporting Bugs
       Email    bug    reports    to    <bug-grep@gnu.org>,    a    mailing    list    whose     web     page     is
       <http://lists.gnu.org/mailman/listinfo/bug-grep>.     grep's    Savannah    bug   tracker   is   located   at
       <http://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?group=grep>.

   Known Bugs
       Large repetition counts in the {n,m} construct may cause grep to use lots of memory.   In  addition,  certain
       other  obscure  regular  expressions  require  exponential  time  and space, and may cause grep to run out of
       memory.

       Back-references are very slow, and may require exponential time.

SEE ALSO
   Regular Manual Pages
       awk(1), cmp(1), diff(1), find(1), gzip(1), perl(1), sed(1), sort(1), xargs(1),  zgrep(1),  mmap(2),  read(2),
       pcre(3), pcresyntax(3), pcrepattern(3), terminfo(5), glob(7), regex(7).

   POSIX Programmer's Manual Page
       grep(1p).

   TeXinfo Documentation
       The   full   documentation   for   grep   is   maintained  as  a  TeXinfo  manual,  which  you  can  read  at
       http://www.gnu.org/software/grep/manual/.  If the info and grep programs are properly installed at your site,
       the command

              info grep

       should give you access to the complete manual.

NOTES
       This man page is maintained only fitfully; the full documentation is often more up-to-date.

       GNU's not Unix, but Unix is a beast; its plural form is Unixen.



User Commands                                       GNU grep 2.16                                            GREP(1)
