GROFF(1)                                       General Commands Manual                                      GROFF(1)



NAME
       groff - front-end for the groff document formatting system

SYNOPSIS
       groff [-abcegijklpstzCEGNRSUVXZ] [-d cs] [-D arg] [-f fam] [-F dir] [-I dir] [-K arg] [-L arg] [-m name]
             [-M dir] [-n num] [-o list] [-P arg] [-r cn] [-T dev] [-w name] [-W name] [file ...]
       groff -h | --help
       groff -v | --version [option ...]

DESCRIPTION
       This document describes the groff program, the main front-end for the groff document formatting system.   The
       groff  program  and macro suite is the implementation of a roff(7) system within the free software collection
       GNU ⟨http://www.gnu.org⟩.  The groff system has all features of the classical roff, but adds many extensions.

       The groff program allows to control the whole groff system by command line options.  This is a great  simpli‐
       fication in comparison to the classical case (which uses pipes only).

OPTIONS
       The  command  line  is  parsed  according to the usual GNU convention.  The whitespace between a command line
       option and its argument is optional.  Options can be grouped behind a single `-' (minus character).  A  file‐
       name of - (minus character) denotes the standard input.

       As groff is a wrapper program for troff both programs share a set of options.  But the groff program has some
       additional, native options and gives a new meaning to some troff options.  On the other hand, not  all  troff
       options can be fed into groff.

   Native groff Options
       The following options either do not exist for troff or are differently interpreted by groff.

       -D arg Set default input encoding used by preconv to arg.  Implies -k.

       -e     Preprocess with eqn.

       -g     Preprocess with grn.

       -G     Preprocess with grap.  Implies -p.

       -h
       --help Print a help message.

       -I dir This option may be used to specify a directory to search for files (both those on the command line and
              those named in .psbb and .so requests, and \X'ps: import' and  \X'ps:  file'  escapes).   The  current
              directory  is always searched first.  This option may be specified more than once; the directories are
              searched in the order specified.  No directory search is performed for files specified using an  abso‐
              lute path.  This option implies the -s option.

       -j     Preprocess with chem.  Implies -p.

       -k     Preprocess with preconv.  This is run before any other preprocessor.  Please refer to preconv's manual
              page for its behaviour if no -K (or -D) option is specified.

       -K arg Set input encoding used by preconv to arg.  Implies -k.

       -l     Send the output to a spooler program for printing.  The command that should be used for this is speci‐
              fied  by  the print command in the device description file, see groff_font(5).  If this command is not
              present, the output is piped into the lpr(1) program by default.  See options -L and -X.

       -L arg Pass arg to the spooler program.  Several arguments should be passed with a separate -L  option  each.
              Note that groff does not prepend `-' (a minus sign) to arg before passing it to the spooler program.

       -N     Don't allow newlines within eqn delimiters.  This is the same as the -N option in eqn.

       -p     Preprocess with pic.

       -P -option
       -P -option -P arg
              Pass  -option  or  -option  arg to the postprocessor.  The option must be specified with the necessary
              preceding minus sign(s) ‘-’ or ‘--’ because groff does not prepend any dashes before passing it to the
              postprocessor.  For example, to pass a title to the gxditview postprocessor, the shell command

                     groff -X -P -title -P 'groff it' foo

              is equivalent to

                     groff -X -Z foo | gxditview -title 'groff it' -

       -R     Preprocess  with  refer.   No  mechanism is provided for passing arguments to refer because most refer
              options have equivalent language elements that can be specified within the document.  See refer(1) for
              more details.

       -s     Preprocess with soelim.

       -S     Safer  mode.  Pass the -S option to pic and disable the following troff requests: .open, .opena, .pso,
              .sy, and .pi.  For security reasons, safer mode is enabled by default.

       -t     Preprocess with tbl.

       -T dev Set output device to dev.  For this device, troff generates the intermediate output; see groff_out(5).
              Then  groff  calls  a  postprocessor to convert troff's intermediate output to its final format.  Real
              devices in groff are

                     dvi    TeX DVI format (postprocessor is grodvi).

                     html
                     xhtml  HTML and XHTML output  (preprocessors  are  soelim  and  pre-grohtml,  postprocessor  is
                            post-grohtml).

                     lbp    Canon CAPSL printers (LBP-4 and LBP-8 series laser printers; postprocessor is grolbp).

                     lj4    HP LaserJet4 compatible (or other PCL5 compatible) printers (postprocessor is grolj4).

                     ps     PostScript output (postprocessor is grops).

                     pdf    Portable Document Format (PDF) output (postprocessor is gropdf).

              For the following TTY output devices (postprocessor is always grotty), -T selects the output encoding:

                     ascii  7bit ASCII.

                     cp1047 Latin-1 character set for EBCDIC hosts.

                     latin1 ISO 8859-1.

                     utf8   Unicode character set in UTF-8 encoding.

              The following arguments select gxditview as the `postprocessor' (it is rather a viewing program):

                     X75    75dpi resolution, 10pt document base font.

                     X75-12 75dpi resolution, 12pt document base font.

                     X100   100dpi resolution, 10pt document base font.

                     X100-12
                            100dpi resolution, 12pt document base font.

              The default device is ps.

       -U     Unsafe mode.  Reverts to the (old) unsafe behaviour; see option -S.

       -v
       --version
              Output version information of groff and of all programs that are run by it; that is, the given command
              line is parsed in the usual way, passing -v to all subprograms.

       -V     Output the pipeline that would be run by groff (as a wrapper program) on the standard output,  but  do
              not execute it.  If given more than once, the commands are both printed on the standard error and run.

       -X     Use  gxditview instead of using the usual postprocessor to (pre)view a document.  The printing spooler
              behavior as outlined with options -l and -L is carried over to gxditview(1) by determining an argument
              for  the -printCommand option of gxditview(1).  This sets the default Print action and the correspond‐
              ing menu entry to that value.  -X only produces good results with -Tps, -TX75, -TX75-12,  -TX100,  and
              -TX100-12.  The default resolution for previewing -Tps output is 75dpi; this can be changed by passing
              the -resolution option to gxditview, for example

                     groff -X -P-resolution -P100 -man foo.1

       -z     Suppress output generated by troff.  Only error messages are printed.

       -Z     Do not automatically postprocess groff intermediate output in the usual manner.  This will  cause  the
              troff output to appear on standard output, replacing the usual postprocessor output; see groff_out(5).

   Transparent Options
       The  following  options  are transparently handed over to the formatter program troff that is called by groff
       subsequently.  These options are described in more detail in troff(1).

       -a     ASCII approximation of output.

       -b     Backtrace on error or warning.

       -c     Disable color output.  Please consult the grotty(1) man page for more details.

       -C     Enable compatibility mode.

       -d cs
       -d name=s
              Define string.

       -E     Disable troff error messages.

       -f fam Set default font family.

       -F dir Set path for font DESC files.

       -i     Process standard input after the specified input files.

       -m name
              Include macro file name.tmac (or tmac.name); see also groff_tmac(5).

       -M dir Path for macro files.

       -n num Number the first page num.

       -o list
              Output only pages in list.

       -r cn
       -r name=n
              Set number register.

       -w name
              Enable warning name.  See troff(1) for names.

       -W name
              disable warning name.  See troff(1) for names.

USING GROFF
       The groff system implements the infrastructure of classical roff; see roff(7) for a survey on how a roff sys‐
       tem  works  in general.  Due to the front-end programs available within the groff system, using groff is much
       easier than classical roff.  This section gives an overview of the parts that constitute  the  groff  system.
       It complements roff(7) with groff-specific features.  This section can be regarded as a guide to the documen‐
       tation around the groff system.

   Paper Size
       The virtual paper size used by troff to format the input is controlled globally with the requests  .po,  .pl,
       and .ll.  See groff_tmac(5) for the `papersize' macro package which provides a convenient interface.

       The  physical  paper  size, giving the actual dimensions of the paper sheets, is controlled by output devices
       like grops with the command line options -p and -l.  See groff_font(5)  and  the  man  pages  of  the  output
       devices for more details.  groff uses the command line option -P to pass options to output devices; for exam‐
       ple, the following selects A4 paper in landscape orientation for the PS device:

              groff -Tps -P-pa4 -P-l ...

   Front-ends
       The groff program is a wrapper around the troff(1) program.  It allows to specify the preprocessors  by  com‐
       mand  line  options  and  automatically  runs  the postprocessor that is appropriate for the selected device.
       Doing so, the sometimes tedious piping mechanism of classical roff(7) can be avoided.

       The grog(1) program can be used for guessing the correct groff command line to format a file.

       The groffer(1) program is an allround-viewer for groff files and man pages.

   Preprocessors
       The groff preprocessors are reimplementations of the classical preprocessors with moderate  extensions.   The
       standard preprocessors distributed with the groff package are

       eqn(1) for mathematical formulæ,

       grn(1) for including gremlin(1) pictures,

       pic(1) for drawing diagrams,

       chem(1)
              for chemical structure diagrams,

       refer(1)
              for bibliographic references,

       soelim(1)
              for including macro files from standard locations,

       and

       tbl(1) for tables.

       A  new  preprocessor not available in classical troff is preconv(1) which converts various input encodings to
       something groff can understand.  It is always run first before any other preprocessor.

       Besides these, there are some internal preprocessors that are automatically run  with  some  devices.   These
       aren't visible to the user.

   Macro Packages
       Macro  packages  can  be  included by option -m.  The groff system implements and extends all classical macro
       packages in a compatible way and adds some packages of its own.  Actually, the following macro packages  come
       with groff:

       man    The traditional man page format; see groff_man(7).  It can be specified on the command line as -man or
              -m man.

       mandoc The general package for man pages; it automatically recognizes whether the documents uses the  man  or
              the  mdoc  format and branches to the corresponding macro package.  It can be specified on the command
              line as -mandoc or -m mandoc.

       mdoc   The BSD-style man page format; see groff_mdoc(7).  It can be specified on the command line as -mdoc or
              -m mdoc.

       me     The  classical me document format; see groff_me(7).  It can be specified on the command line as -me or
              -m me.

       mm     The classical mm document format; see groff_mm(7).  It can be specified on the command line as -mm  or
              -m mm.

       ms     The  classical ms document format; see groff_ms(7).  It can be specified on the command line as -ms or
              -m ms.

       www    HTML-like macros for inclusion in arbitrary groff documents; see groff_www(7).

       Details on the naming of macro files and their placement can be found in groff_tmac(5); this  man  page  also
       documents some other, minor auxiliary macro packages not mentioned here.

   Programming Language
       General concepts common to all roff programming languages are described in roff(7).

       The groff extensions to the classical troff language are documented in groff_diff(7).

       The  groff language as a whole is described in the (still incomplete) groff info file; a short (but complete)
       reference can be found in groff(7).

   Formatters
       The central roff formatter within the groff system is troff(1).  It provides the features of both the classi‐
       cal troff and nroff, as well as the groff extensions.  The command line option -C switches troff into compat‐
       ibility mode which tries to emulate classical roff as much as possible.

       There is a shell script nroff(1) that emulates the behavior of classical nroff.  It  tries  to  automatically
       select the proper output encoding, according to the current locale.

       The formatter program generates intermediate output; see groff_out(7).

   Devices
       In  roff,  the output targets are called devices.  A device can be a piece of hardware, e.g., a printer, or a
       software file format.  A device is specified by the option -T.  The groff devices are as follows.

       ascii  Text output using the ascii(7) character set.

       cp1047 Text output using the EBCDIC code page IBM cp1047 (e.g., OS/390 Unix).

       dvi    TeX DVI format.

       html   HTML output.

       latin1 Text output using the ISO Latin-1 (ISO 8859-1) character set; see iso_8859_1(7).

       lbp    Output for Canon CAPSL printers (LBP-4 and LBP-8 series laser printers).

       lj4    HP LaserJet4-compatible (or other PCL5-compatible) printers.

       ps     PostScript output; suitable for printers and previewers like gv(1).

       pdf    PDF files; suitable for viewing with tools such as evince(1) and okular(1).

       utf8   Text output using the Unicode (ISO 10646) character set with UTF-8 encoding; see unicode(7).

       xhtml  XHTML output.

       X75    75dpi X Window System output suitable for the previewers xditview(1x) and gxditview(1).  A variant for
              a 12pt document base font is X75-12.

       X100   100dpi  X  Window  System output suitable for the previewers xditview(1x) and gxditview(1).  A variant
              for a 12pt document base font is X100-12.

       The postprocessor to be used for a device is specified by the postpro command in the device description file;
       see groff_font(5).  This can be overridden with the -X option.

       The default device is ps.

   Postprocessors
       groff provides 3 hardware postprocessors:

       grolbp(1)
              for some Canon printers,

       grolj4(1)
              for printers compatible to the HP LaserJet 4 and PCL5,

       grotty(1)
              for text output using various encodings, e.g., on text-oriented terminals or line-printers.

       Today,  most  printing or drawing hardware is handled by the operating system, by device drivers, or by soft‐
       ware interfaces, usually accepting PostScript.  Consequently, there isn't an urgent need  for  more  hardware
       device postprocessors.

       The groff software devices for conversion into other document file formats are

       grodvi(1)
              for the DVI format,

       grohtml(1)
              for HTML and XHTML formats,

       grops(1)
              for PostScript.

       gropdf(1)
              for PDF.

       Combined  with  the many existing free conversion tools this should be sufficient to convert a troff document
       into virtually any existing data format.

   Utilities
       The following utility programs around groff are available.

       addftinfo(1)
              Add information to troff font description files for use with groff.

       afmtodit(1)
              Create font description files for PostScript device.

       eqn2graph(1)
              Convert an eqn image into a cropped image.

       gdiffmk(1)
              Mark differences between groff, nroff, or troff files.

       grap2graph(1)
              Convert a grap diagram into a cropped bitmap image.

       groffer(1)
              General viewer program for groff files and man pages.

       gxditview(1)
              The groff X viewer, the GNU version of xditview.

       hpftodit(1)
              Create font description files for lj4 device.

       indxbib(1)
              Make inverted index for bibliographic databases.

       lkbib(1)
              Search bibliographic databases.

       lookbib(1)
              Interactively search bibliographic databases.

       pdfroff(1)
              Create PDF documents using groff.

       pfbtops(1)
              Translate a PostScript font in .pfb format to ASCII.

       pic2graph(1)
              Convert a pic diagram into a cropped image.

       tfmtodit(1)
              Create font description files for TeX DVI device.

       xditview(1x)
              roff viewer distributed with X window.

       xtotroff(1)
              Convert X font metrics into GNU troff font metrics.

ENVIRONMENT
       Normally, the path separator in the following environment variables is the colon; this may vary depending  on
       the operating system.  For example, DOS and Windows use a semicolon instead.

       GROFF_BIN_PATH
              This  search  path,  followed by $PATH, is used for commands that are executed by groff.  If it is not
              set then the directory where the groff binaries were installed is prepended to PATH.

       GROFF_COMMAND_PREFIX
              When there is a need to run different roff implementations at the same time groff provides the  facil‐
              ity to prepend a prefix to most of its programs that could provoke name clashings at run time (default
              is to have none).  Historically, this prefix was the character g, but it can be anything.   For  exam‐
              ple,   gtroff   stood   for   groff's   troff,  gtbl  for  the  groff  version  of  tbl.   By  setting
              GROFF_COMMAND_PREFIX to different values, the different roff installations  can  be  addressed.   More
              exactly,  if it is set to prefix xxx then groff as a wrapper program internally calls xxxtroff instead
              of troff.  This also applies to the preprocessors eqn, grn, pic, refer, tbl, soelim, and to the utili‐
              ties  indxbib  and lookbib.  This feature does not apply to any programs different from the ones above
              (most notably groff itself) since they are unique to the groff package.

       GROFF_ENCODING
              The value of this environment value is passed to the preconv preprocessor to select  the  encoding  of
              input  files.   Setting  this  option  implies groff's command line option -k (this is, groff actually
              always calls preconv).  If set without a value, groff calls preconv without arguments.  An explicit -K
              command line option overrides the value of GROFF_ENCODING.  See preconv(1) for details.

       GROFF_FONT_PATH
              A  list  of  directories in which to search for the devname directory in addition to the default ones.
              See troff(1) and groff_font(5) for more details.

       GROFF_TMAC_PATH
              A list of directories in which to search for macro files in addition to the default directories.   See
              troff(1) and groff_tmac(5) for more details.

       GROFF_TMPDIR
              The  directory  in which temporary files are created.  If this is not set but the environment variable
              TMPDIR instead, temporary files are created in the directory $TMPDIR.  On MS-DOS and Windows 32  plat‐
              forms,  the  environment  variables TMP and TEMP (in that order) are searched also, after GROFF_TMPDIR
              and TMPDIR.  Otherwise, temporary files are created in /tmp.  The  refer(1),  groffer(1),  grohtml(1),
              and grops(1) commands use temporary files.

       GROFF_TYPESETTER
              Preset  the default device.  If this is not set the ps device is used as default.  This device name is
              overwritten by the option -T.

FILES
       There are some directories in which groff installs all of its data  files.   Due  to  different  installation
       habits  on  different  operating  systems,  their  locations  are not absolutely fixed, but their function is
       clearly defined and coincides on all systems.

   groff Macro Directory
       This contains all information related to macro packages.  Note that more than a single directory is  searched
       for  those  files as documented in groff_tmac(5).  For the groff installation corresponding to this document,
       it is located at /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/tmac.  The following files contained in the  groff  macro  directory
       have a special meaning:

       troffrc
              Initialization  file  for  troff.   This is interpreted by troff before reading the macro sets and any
              input.

       troffrc-end
              Final startup file for troff.  It is parsed after all macro sets have been read.

       name.tmac
       tmac.name
              Macro file for macro package name.

   groff Font Directory
       This contains all information related to output devices.  Note that more than a single directory is  searched
       for  those  files; see troff(1).  For the groff installation corresponding to this document, it is located at
       /usr/share/groff/1.22.2/font.  The following files contained in the groff font directory have a special mean‐
       ing:

       devname/DESC
              Device description file for device name, see groff_font(5).

       devname/F
              Font file for font F of device name.

EXAMPLES
       The following example illustrates the power of the groff program as a wrapper around troff.

       To  process  a  roff file using the preprocessors tbl and pic and the me macro set, classical troff had to be
       called by

              pic foo.me | tbl | troff -me -Tlatin1 | grotty

       Using groff, this pipe can be shortened to the equivalent command

              groff -p -t -me -T latin1 foo.me

       An even easier way to call this is to use grog(1) to guess the preprocessor and macro options and execute the
       generated command (by using backquotes to specify shell command substitution)

              `grog -Tlatin1 foo.me`

       The simplest way is to view the contents in an automated way by calling

              groffer foo.me

BUGS
       On EBCDIC hosts (e.g., OS/390 Unix), output devices ascii and latin1 aren't available.  Similarly, output for
       EBCDIC code page cp1047 is not available on ASCII based operating systems.

       Report bugs to the groff maling list ⟨bug-groff@gnu.org⟩.  Include a complete,  self-contained  example  that
       allows the bug to be reproduced, and say which version of groff you are using.

AVAILABILITY
       Information  on  how  to  get  groff  and  related information is available at the groff GNU website ⟨http://
       www.gnu.org/software/groff⟩.  The most recent released version of groff is available at the groff development
       site ⟨http://groff.ffii.org/groff/devel/groff-current.tar.gz⟩.

       Three groff mailing lists are available:

              for reporting bugs ⟨bug-groff@gnu.org⟩.

              for general discussion of groff, ⟨groff@gnu.org⟩.

              the groff commit list ⟨groff-commit@ffii.org⟩, a read-only list showing logs of commitments to the CVS
              repository.

       Details on CVS access and much more can be found in the file README at the top directory of the groff  source
       package.

       There  is  a  free  implementation  of the grap preprocessor, written by Ted Faber ⟨faber@lunabase.org⟩.  The
       actual version can be found at the grap website ⟨http://www.lunabase.org/~faber/Vault/software/grap/⟩.   This
       is the only grap version supported by groff.

AUTHORS
       Copyright © 2011 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

       This  document  is  distributed  under  the  terms of the FDL (GNU Free Documentation License) version 1.3 or
       later.  You should have received a copy of the FDL on your system, it is also available on-line  at  the  GNU
       copyleft site ⟨http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/fdl.html⟩.

       This  document  is  based  on  the  original  groff man page written by James Clark ⟨jjc@jclark.com⟩.  It was
       rewritten, enhanced, and put under the FDL license by Bernd  Warken  <groff-bernd.warken-72@web.de>.   It  is
       maintained by Werner Lemberg ⟨wl@gnu.org⟩.

       groff is a GNU free software project.  All parts of the groff package are protected by GNU copyleft licenses.
       The software files are distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License (GPL), while  the  docu‐
       mentation files mostly use the GNU Free Documentation License (FDL).

SEE ALSO
       The  groff  info  file  contains all information on the groff system within a single document, providing many
       examples and background information.  See info(1) on how to read it.

       Due to its complex structure, the groff system has  many  man  pages.   They  can  be  read  with  man(1)  or
       groffer(1).

       Introduction, history and further readings:
              roff(7).

       Viewer for groff files:
              groffer(1), gxditview(1), xditview(1x).

       Wrapper programs for formatters:
              groff(1), grog(1).

       Roff preprocessors:
              eqn(1), grn(1), pic(1), chem(1), preconv(1), refer(1), soelim(1), tbl(1), grap(1).

       Roff language with the groff extensions:
              groff(7), groff_char(7), groff_diff(7), groff_font(5).

       Roff formatter programs:
              nroff(1), troff(1), ditroff(7).

       The intermediate output language:
              groff_out(7).

       Postprocessors for the output devices:
              grodvi(1), grohtml(1), grolbp(1), grolj4(1), lj4_font(5), grops(1), gropdf(1), grotty(1).

       Groff macro packages and macro-specific utilities:
              groff_tmac(5),  groff_man(7),  groff_mdoc(7),  groff_me(7),  groff_mm(7), groff_mmse(7), groff_mom(7),
              groff_ms(7), groff_www(7), groff_trace(7), mmroff(7).

       The following utilities are available:
              addftinfo(1),  afmtodit(1),  eqn2graph(1),  gdiffmk(1),   grap2graph(1),   groffer(1),   gxditview(1),
              hpftodit(1),  indxbib(1),  lkbib(1),  lookbib(1),  pdfroff(1),  pfbtops(1), pic2graph(1), tfmtodit(1),
              xtotroff(1).



Groff Version 1.22.2                               22 January 2014                                          GROFF(1)
