GROG(1)                                        General Commands Manual                                       GROG(1)



NAME
       grog - guess options for groff command

SYNOPSIS
       grog [-C] [groff-option ...] [--] [filespec ...]
       grog -h | --help
       grog -v | --version

DESCRIPTION
       grog  reads  the input (file names or standard input) and guesses which of the groff(1) options are needed to
       perform the input with the groff program.  The corresponding groff command is output.

OPTIONS
       The only grog options recognized are -C (which is also passed on) to enable compatibility mode; -v and --ver‐
       sion  print information on the version number; and -h and --help print usage information.  -v, --version, -h,
       and --help stop the program directly without printing a groff command to standard output.

       All other specified short options (words starting with one  minus  character  -)  are  interpreted  as  groff
       options or option clusters with or without argument.  No space is allowed between options and their argument.
       Except from the -marg options, all options will be passed on, i.e. they are included unchanged in the command
       for the output without effecting the work of grog.

       A  filespec  argument  can either be the name of an existing file or a single minus - to mean standard input.
       If no filespec is specified standard input is read automatically.

DETAILS
       grog reads all filespec parameters as a whole.  It tries to guess which of the following  groff  options  are
       required  for running the input under groff: -e, -man, -me, -mm, -mom, -ms, -mdoc, -mdoc-old, -p, -R, -g, -G,
       -s, and -t.  The guessed groff command including those options and the found filespec parameters  is  put  on
       the standard output.

       It  is possible to specify arbitrary groff options on the command line.  These are passed on the output with‐
       out change, except for the -marg options.

       The groff program has trouble when the wrong -marg option or several of  these  options  are  specified.   In
       these  cases, grog will print an error message and exit with an error code.  It is better to specify no -marg
       option.  Because such an option is only accepted and passed when grog does not find any of these  options  or
       the same option is found.

       If  several  different -marg options are found by grog an error message is produced and the program is termi‐
       nated with an error code.  But the output is written with the wrong options nevertheless.

       Remember that it is not necessary to determine a macro package.  A roff file can also be written in the groff
       language without any macro package.  grog will produce an output without an -marg option.

       As groff also works with pure text files without any roff requests, grog cannot be used to identify a file to
       be a roff file.

       The groffer(1) program heavily depends on a working grog.

       The grog source contains two files written in different programming languages: grog.pl is the  Perl  version,
       while grog.sh is a shell script using awk(1).  During the run of make(1), it is determined whether the system
       contains a suitable version of perl(1).  If so, grog.pl is transformed into grog; otherwise grog.sh  is  used
       instead.

EXAMPLES
       ·      Calling

                     grog meintro.me

              results in

                     groff -me meintro.me

              So grog recognized that the file meintro.me is written with the -me macro package.

       ·      On the other hand,

                     grog pic.ms

              outputs

                     groff -pte -ms pic.ms

              Besides  determining  the  macro  package -ms, grog recognized that the file pic.ms additionally needs
              -pte, the combination of -p for pic, -t for tbl, and -e for eqn.

       ·      If both files are combined by the command

                     grog meintro.me pic.ms

              an error message is sent to standard error because groff cannot work with two  different  macro  pack‐
              ages:

                     grog: error: there are several macro packages: -me -ms

              Additionally the corresponding output with the wrong options is printed to standard output:

                     groff -pte -me -ms meintro.me pic.ms

              But the program is terminated with an error code.

       ·      The call of

                     grog -ksS -Tdvi grnexmpl.g

              contains  several  groff  options  that  are  just passed on the output without any interface to grog.
              These are the option cluster -ksS consisting of -k, -s, and -S; and the option -T with  argument  dvi.
              The output is

                     groff -ksS -Tdvi grnexmpl.g

              so  no  additional  option was added by grog.  As no option -marg was found by grog this file does not
              use a macro package.

SEE ALSO
       groff(1), troff(1), tbl(1), pic(1), chem(1),  eqn(1),  refer(1),  grn(1),  grap(1),  soelim(1),  groff_me(7),
       groff_ms(7), groff_mm(7), groff_mom(7), groff_man(7), groffer(1)

COPYING
       Copyright (C) 1989-2003, 2006, 2007, 2009-2012 Free Software Foundation, Inc.  Written by James Clark.  Main‐
       tained  by  Werner  Lemberg  ⟨wl@gnu.org⟩.   Rewritten  and  put  under   GPL   by   Bernd   Warken   <groff-
       bernd.warken-72@web.de>.

       This  file  is part of grog, which is part of groff, a free software project.  You can redistribute it and/or
       modify it under the terms of the GNU  General  Public  License  (GPL)  as  published  by  the  Free  Software
       Foundation, either version 2, or (at your option) any later version.

       You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with groff, see the files COPYING and
       LICENSE in the top directory of the groff source package.  Or read the man page gpl(1).  You can  also  write
       to the Free Software Foundation, 51 Franklin St - Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.



Groff Version 1.22.2                              07 February 2013                                           GROG(1)
