
GSFTOPK(1)                                     General Commands Manual                                    GSFTOPK(1)



NAME
       gsftopk - render a ghostscript font in TeX pk form

SYNOPSIS
       gsftopk  [-i  path] [-q] [-t] [--debug=n] [--dosnames] [--interpreter=path] [--mapline=line] [--mapfile=file]
       [--quiet] [--test] [--help] [--version] font dpi

ARGUMENTS
       font  Name of the font to be created.

       dpi   Desired resolution of the font to be created, in dots per inch.  This may be a real number.

DESCRIPTION
       gsftopk is a program which calls up the ghostscript program gs(1) to render a given font at a  given  resolu‐
       tion.   It  packs  the  resulting  characters into the pk file format and writes them to a file whose name is
       formed from the font name and the resolution (rounded to the nearest integer).  The font may be in any format
       acceptable to Ghostscript, including .pfa, .pfb, .gsf, and .ttf files.

       This program should normally be called by a script, such as mktexpk, to create fonts on demand.

       gsftopk  obtains  the  character widths from the .tfm file, which must exist in the standard search path.  It
       also must be able to find the font in a map file (such as psfonts.map), formatted as in dvips(1)), unless the
       --mapline  option is used.  The set of map files is given by the --mapfile option, or in the files config.ps,
       $HOME/.dvipsrc, and config.gsftopk (as would be used by dvips -Pgsftopk).

       The following pk "specials" are added at the end of the output file, to provide an internal check on the con‐
       tents  of  the  file: "jobname=font", "mag=1", "mode=modeless", and "pixels_per_inch=dpi".  This is in accor‐
       dance with the TeX Directory Standard (TDS).

OPTIONS
       --debug=n
              Set the Kpathsea debug flags according to the integer n.

       --dosnames
              Use a name of the form font.pk instead of font.dpipk.

       -h, --help
              Print a brief help synopsis and exit.

       -i path, --interpreter=path
              Use path as the Ghostscript interpreter.

       --mapfile=file
              Use file to look for the map information for font.  This should be the full name of the file (in other
              words, no path searching algorithms are applied).

       --mapline=line
              Use line instead of looking for an entry in a map file.  The first word of line must match font.

       -q, --quiet
              Operate quietly; i.e., without writing any messages to the standard output.

       -t, --test
              Test  run:   return  zero status if the font can be found in the map file(s), and nonzero status if it
              cannot.  If this option is specified, then the dpi argument is optional (since the font  will  not  be
              generated).

       -v, --version
              Print the version number and exit.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       DVIPSRC         Name of file to read instead of $HOME/.dvipsrc.  This should be the full name of the file (in
                       other words, no path searching algorithms are applied).

       GSFTOPKFONTS    See TFMFONTS.

       GSFTOPKHEADERS  See TEXPSHEADERS.

       PSHEADERS       See TEXPSHEADERS.

       TEXCONFIG       Colon-separated list of paths to search for map files.  An  extra  colon  in  the  list  will
                       include  the  compiled-in  default paths at that point.  A double slash will enable recursive
                       subdirectory searching at that point in the path.

       TFMFONTS        Colon-separated list of paths to search for the .tfm file associated with the  font.   Double
                       slashes  and extra colons behave as with TEXCONFIG.  This information may also be supplied by
                       using the environment variables TFMFONTS or GSFTOPKFONTS.  These  environment  variables  are
                       checked  in the order GSFTOPKFONTS, TFMFONTS, TFMFONTS; the first one (if any) having a value
                       is used.

       TEXPSHEADERS    Colon-separated list of paths to search for the Ghostscript driver file render.ps and for any
                       PostScript  header or font files (.enc, .pfa, .pfb, .gsf, or .ttf files).  Double slashes and
                       extra colons behave as with TEXCONFIG.  This information may also be supplied  by  using  the
                       environment  variables  PSHEADERS or GSFTOPKHEADERS.  These environment variables are checked
                       in the order GSFTOPKHEADERS, TEXPSHEADERS, PSHEADERS; the first one (if any) having  a  value
                       is used.

       TFMFONTS        See TFMFONTS.

CONFIGURATION
       In  order  to  determine  the  set of map files to be used and the path for finding PostScript files, gsftopk
       reads, in order, the files config.ps, .dvipsrc, and config.gsftopk.  The files config.ps  and  config.gsftopk
       are  searched for using the environment variable TEXCONFIG, the Kpathsea configuration file, or the compiled-
       in default paths.  The file .dvipsrc is searched for in the user's home directory.

       These files are in the same format as for dvips (as well as being in the same locations).  The  entries  used
       by gsftopk are as follows.

       H path Indicates  that  the Ghostscript driver file render.ps and the PostScript header and font files are to
              be searched for using path.

       p file Indicates that the list of map files is to be erased and replaced by file.

       p +file
              Indicates that file is to be added to the list of map files.

       All other entries are ignored.

       This is similar to the handling of these options when running dvips -Pgsftopk.  For  more  details,  see  the
       Kpathsea manual.

BUGS
       gsftopk sometimes has trouble with fonts with very complicated characters (such as the Seal of the University
       of California).  This is because gsftopk uses the charpath operator to determine the  bounding  box  of  each
       character.   If  the  character is too complicated, then old versions of Ghostscript fail, causing gsftopk to
       terminate with an error message

              Call to gs stopped by signal 10

       (The number may vary from system to system; it corresponds to a bus error or a segmentation fault.)  The best
       way  to  fix  this  bug  is  to  install a current version of ghostscript.  As an alternative, gsftopk can be
       instructed to use the bounding box provided with the font (if one exists) instead of finding a  bounding  box
       for each character.  To do this, include the string

              /usefontbbox true def

       in the font map file; e.g.,

              ucseal "/usefontbbox true def"

       This will not affect use of the font by dvips.

SEE ALSO
       gs(1), gftopk(1), tex(1), xdvi(1), dvips(1)

AUTHOR
       Written by Paul Vojta.  This program was inspired by Karl Berry's gsrenderfont.

MODIFICATIONS
       Modified by Yves Arrouye to use Karl Berry's Kpathsea library.



                                                  28 November 1998                                        GSFTOPK(1)
