HOSTNAMECTL(1)                                       hostnamectl                                      HOSTNAMECTL(1)



NAME
       hostnamectl - Control the system hostname

SYNOPSIS
       hostnamectl [OPTIONS...] {COMMAND}

DESCRIPTION
       hostnamectl may be used to query and change the system hostname and related settings.

       This tool distinguishes three different host names: the high-level "pretty" hostname which might include all
       kinds of special characters (e.g. "Lennart's Laptop"), the static hostname which is used to initialize the
       kernel hostname at boot (e.g. "lennarts-laptop"), and the transient hostname which might be assigned
       temporarily due to network configuration and might revert back to the static hostname if network connectivity
       is lost and is only temporarily written to the kernel hostname (e.g. "dhcp-47-11").

       Note that the pretty hostname has little restrictions on the characters used, while the static and transient
       hostnames are limited to the usually accepted characters of internet domain names.

       The static host name is stored in /etc/hostname, see hostname(5) for more information. The pretty host name,
       chassis type and icon name are stored in /etc/machine-info, see machine-id(5).

OPTIONS
       The following options are understood:

       -h, --help
           Prints a short help text and exits.

       --version
           Prints a short version string and exits.

       --no-ask-password
           Don't query the user for authentication for privileged operations.

       -H, --host
           Execute the operation remotely. Specify a hostname, or username and hostname separated by @, to connect
           to. This will use SSH to talk to a remote system.

       --static, --transient, --pretty
           If set-hostname is invoked and one or more of these options are passed only the selected hostnames is
           updated.

       The following commands are understood:

       status
           Show current system hostname and related information.

       set-hostname [NAME]
           Set the system hostname. By default this will alter the pretty, the static, and the transient hostname
           alike, however if one or more of --static, --transient, --pretty are used only the selected hostnames are
           changed. If the pretty hostname is being set, and static or transient are being set as well the specified
           host name will be simplified in regards to the character set used before the latter are updated. This is
           done by replacing spaces by "-" and removing special characters. This ensures that the pretty and the
           static hostname are always closely related while still following the validity rules of the specific name.
           This simplification of the hostname string is not done if only the transient and/or static host names are
           set, and the pretty host name is left untouched. Pass the empty string "" as hostname to reset the
           selected hostnames to their default (usually "localhost").

       set-icon-name [NAME]
           Set the system icon name. The icon name is used by some graphical applications to visualize this host.
           The icon name should follow the Icon Naming Specification[1]. Pass an empty string to this operation to
           reset the icon name to the default value which is determined from chassis type (see below) and possibly
           other parameters.

       set-chassis [TYPE]
           Set the chassis type. The chassis type is used by some graphical applications to visualize the host or
           alter user interaction. Currently, the following chassis types are defined: desktop, laptop, server,
           tablet, handset, as well as the special chassis types vm and container for virtualized systems that lack
           an immediate physical chassis. Pass an empty string to this operation to reset the chassis type to the
           default value which is determined from the firmware and possibly other parameters.

EXIT STATUS
       On success 0 is returned, a non-zero failure code otherwise.

SEE ALSO
       systemd(1), hostname(1), hostname(5), machine-info(5), systemctl(1), systemd-hostnamed.service(8)

NOTES
        1. Icon Naming Specification
           http://standards.freedesktop.org/icon-naming-spec/icon-naming-spec-latest.html



systemd 204                                                                                           HOSTNAMECTL(1)
