ICO(1)                                         General Commands Manual                                        ICO(1)



NAME
       ico - animate an icosahedron or other polyhedron

SYNOPSIS
       ico  [-display  display]  [-geometry  geometry]  [-r] [-d pattern] [-i] [-dbl] [-faces] [-noedges] [-sleep n]
       [-obj object] [-objhelp] [-colors color-list]

DESCRIPTION
       Ico displays a wire-frame rotating polyhedron, with hidden lines removed, or  a  solid-fill  polyhedron  with
       hidden  faces  removed.   There are a number of different polyhedra available; adding a new polyhedron to the
       program is quite simple.

OPTIONS
       -r     Display on the root window instead of creating a new window.

       -d pattern
              Specify a bit pattern for drawing dashed lines for wire frames.

       -i     Use inverted colors for wire frames.

       -dbl   Use double buffering on the display.  This works for either wire frame or solid  fill  drawings.   For
              solid  fill  drawings,  using  this switch results in substantially smoother movement.  Note that this
              requires twice as many bit planes as without double buffering.  Since some colors are typically  allo‐
              cated  by  other programs, most eight-bit-plane displays will probably be limited to eight colors when
              using double buffering.

       -faces Draw filled faces instead of wire frames.

       -noedges
              Don't draw the wire frames.  Typically used only when -faces is used.

       -sleep n
              Sleep n seconds between each move of the object.

       -obj object
              Specify what object to draw.  If no object is specified, an icosahedron is drawn.

       -objhelp
              Print out a list of the available objects, along with information about each object.

       -colors color color ...
              Specify what colors should be used to draw the filled faces of the object.  If less colors than  faces
              are given, the colors are reused.

PROGRAM TERMINATION
       Pressing  "q"  will  close  a  window.  If compiled with threads support, the program will stop only when all
       threads terminate. You can also close an animation window using the ICCCM delete message (depending  on  your
       window manager, you will have a decoration button or menu to send such message).

ADDING POLYHEDRA
       If  you  have  the  source  to  ico, it is very easy to add more polyhedra.  Each polyhedron is defined in an
       include file by the name of objXXX.h, where XXX is something related to the name of the polyhedron.  The for‐
       mat  of the include file is defined in the file polyinfo.h.  Look at the file objcube.h to see what the exact
       format of an objXXX.h file should be, then create your objXXX.h file in that format.

       After making the new objXXX.h file (or copying in a new one from elsewhere), simply do a 'make depend'.  This
       will  recreate  the  file  allobjs.h,  which lists all of the objXXX.h files.  Doing a 'make' after this will
       rebuild ico with the new object information.

SEE ALSO
       X(7)

BUGS
       Pyramids and tetrahedrons with filled faces do not display correctly.

       A separate color cell is allocated for each name in the -colors list, even when the same name may  be  speci‐
       fied twice.  Color allocation fails in TrueColor displays and option -faces does not work well.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 1994 X Consortium
       See X(7) for a full statement of rights and permissions.



X Version 11                                          ico 1.0.4                                               ICO(1)
