ICONV(1)                                          Debian GNU/Linux                                          ICONV(1)



NAME
       iconv - Convert encoding of given files from one encoding to another

SYNOPSIS
       iconv -f encoding [-t encoding] [inputfile]...

DESCRIPTION
       The iconv program converts the encoding of characters in inputfile, or from the standard input if no filename
       is specified, from one coded character set to another. The result is written to standard output unless
       otherwise specified by the --output option.

       --from-code, -f encoding
              Convert characters from encoding.

       --to-code, -t encoding
              Convert characters to encoding. If not specified the encoding corresponding to the current locale is
              used.

       --list, -l
              List known coded character sets.

       -c     Omit invalid characters from output.

       --output, -o file
              Specify output file (instead of stdout).

       --silent, -s
              Suppress warnings, but not errors.

       --verbose
              Print progress information.

       --help, -?
              Give help list.

       --usage
              Give a short usage message.

       --version, -V
              Print program version.

ENCODINGS
       The values permitted for --from-code and --to-code can be listed by the iconv --list command, and all
       combinations of the listed values are supported. Furthermore the following two suffixes are supported:

       //TRANSLIT
              When the string "//TRANSLIT" is appended to --to-code, transliteration is activated.  This means that
              when a character cannot be represented in the target character set, it can be approximated through one
              or several similarly looking characters.

       //IGNORE
              When the string "//IGNORE" is appended to --to-code, characters that cannot be represented in the
              target character set will be silently discarded.


AUTHOR
       iconv was written by Ulrich Drepper as part of the GNU C Library.

       This man page was written by Joel Klecker <espy@debian.org>, for the Debian GNU/Linux system.










3rd Berkeley Distribution                               lenny                                               ICONV(1)
