INITDB(1)                                  PostgreSQL 9.3.16 Documentation                                 INITDB(1)



NAME
       initdb - create a new PostgreSQL database cluster

SYNOPSIS
       initdb [option...] [--pgdata | -D] directory

DESCRIPTION
       initdb creates a new PostgreSQL database cluster. A database cluster is a collection of databases that are
       managed by a single server instance.

       Creating a database cluster consists of creating the directories in which the database data will live,
       generating the shared catalog tables (tables that belong to the whole cluster rather than to any particular
       database), and creating the template1 and postgres databases. When you later create a new database,
       everything in the template1 database is copied. (Therefore, anything installed in template1 is automatically
       copied into each database created later.) The postgres database is a default database meant for use by users,
       utilities and third party applications.

       Although initdb will attempt to create the specified data directory, it might not have permission if the
       parent directory of the desired data directory is root-owned. To initialize in such a setup, create an empty
       data directory as root, then use chown to assign ownership of that directory to the database user account,
       then su to become the database user to run initdb.

       initdb must be run as the user that will own the server process, because the server needs to have access to
       the files and directories that initdb creates. Since the server cannot be run as root, you must not run
       initdb as root either. (It will in fact refuse to do so.)

       initdb initializes the database cluster's default locale and character set encoding. The character set
       encoding, collation order (LC_COLLATE) and character set classes (LC_CTYPE, e.g. upper, lower, digit) can be
       set separately for a database when it is created.  initdb determines those settings for the template1
       database, which will serve as the default for all other databases.

       To alter the default collation order or character set classes, use the --lc-collate and --lc-ctype options.
       Collation orders other than C or POSIX also have a performance penalty. For these reasons it is important to
       choose the right locale when running initdb.

       The remaining locale categories can be changed later when the server is started. You can also use --locale to
       set the default for all locale categories, including collation order and character set classes. All server
       locale values (lc_*) can be displayed via SHOW ALL. More details can be found in Section 22.1, “Locale
       Support”, in the documentation.

       To alter the default encoding, use the --encoding. More details can be found in Section 22.3, “Character Set
       Support”, in the documentation.

OPTIONS
       -A authmethod, --auth=authmethod
           This option specifies the authentication method for local users used in pg_hba.conf (host and local
           lines). Do not use trust unless you trust all local users on your system.  trust is the default for ease
           of installation.

       --auth-host=authmethod
           This option specifies the authentication method for local users via TCP/IP connections used in
           pg_hba.conf (host lines).

       --auth-local=authmethod
           This option specifies the authentication method for local users via Unix-domain socket connections used
           in pg_hba.conf (local lines).

       -D directory, --pgdata=directory
           This option specifies the directory where the database cluster should be stored. This is the only
           information required by initdb, but you can avoid writing it by setting the PGDATA environment variable,
           which can be convenient since the database server (postgres) can find the database directory later by the
           same variable.

       -E encoding, --encoding=encoding
           Selects the encoding of the template database. This will also be the default encoding of any database you
           create later, unless you override it there. The default is derived from the locale, or SQL_ASCII if that
           does not work. The character sets supported by the PostgreSQL server are described in Section 22.3.1,
           “Supported Character Sets”, in the documentation.

       -k, --data-checksums
           Use checksums on data pages to help detect corruption by the I/O system that would otherwise be silent.
           Enabling checksums may incur a noticeable performance penalty. This option can only be set during
           initialization, and cannot be changed later. If set, checksums are calculated for all objects, in all
           databases.

       --locale=locale
           Sets the default locale for the database cluster. If this option is not specified, the locale is
           inherited from the environment that initdb runs in. Locale support is described in Section 22.1, “Locale
           Support”, in the documentation.

       --lc-collate=locale, --lc-ctype=locale, --lc-messages=locale, --lc-monetary=locale, --lc-numeric=locale,
       --lc-time=locale
           Like --locale, but only sets the locale in the specified category.

       --no-locale
           Equivalent to --locale=C.

       -N, --nosync
           By default, initdb will wait for all files to be written safely to disk. This option causes initdb to
           return without waiting, which is faster, but means that a subsequent operating system crash can leave the
           data directory corrupt. Generally, this option is useful for testing, but should not be used when
           creating a production installation.

       --pwfile=filename
           Makes initdb read the database superuser's password from a file. The first line of the file is taken as
           the password.

       -S, --sync-only
           Safely write all database files to disk and exit. This does not perform any of the normal initdb
           operations.

       -T CFG, --text-search-config=CFG
           Sets the default text search configuration. See default_text_search_config for further information.

       -U username, --username=username
           Selects the user name of the database superuser. This defaults to the name of the effective user running
           initdb. It is really not important what the superuser's name is, but one might choose to keep the
           customary name postgres, even if the operating system user's name is different.

       -W, --pwprompt
           Makes initdb prompt for a password to give the database superuser. If you don't plan on using password
           authentication, this is not important. Otherwise you won't be able to use password authentication until
           you have a password set up.

       -X directory, --xlogdir=directory
           This option specifies the directory where the transaction log should be stored.

       Other, less commonly used, options are also available:

       -d, --debug
           Print debugging output from the bootstrap backend and a few other messages of lesser interest for the
           general public. The bootstrap backend is the program initdb uses to create the catalog tables. This
           option generates a tremendous amount of extremely boring output.

       -L directory
           Specifies where initdb should find its input files to initialize the database cluster. This is normally
           not necessary. You will be told if you need to specify their location explicitly.

       -n, --noclean
           By default, when initdb determines that an error prevented it from completely creating the database
           cluster, it removes any files it might have created before discovering that it cannot finish the job.
           This option inhibits tidying-up and is thus useful for debugging.

       Other options:

       -V, --version
           Print the initdb version and exit.

       -?, --help
           Show help about initdb command line arguments, and exit.

ENVIRONMENT
       PGDATA
           Specifies the directory where the database cluster is to be stored; can be overridden using the -D
           option.

       TZ
           Specifies the time zone, using full time zone names, which the created database cluster should use.

       This utility, like most other PostgreSQL utilities, also uses the environment variables supported by libpq
       (see Section 31.14, “Environment Variables”, in the documentation).

NOTES
       initdb can also be invoked via pg_ctl initdb.

SEE ALSO
       pg_ctl(1), postgres(1)



PostgreSQL 9.3.16                                       2017                                               INITDB(1)
