instant(1)                                     General Commands Manual                                    instant(1)



Name
       instant - manipulates ESIS from parsed SGML instance

Synopsis
       instant [ -bhuvxHISW ]  [ -t file]  [ -s file]  [ -c file]  [ -o file]  [ -D variable=value ...]  [ -i id]  [
       -l directory]  [file]

Description
       The instant program manipulates an SGML document instance in a variety of ways, including translating into  a
       form suitable for a formatting application and printing information about this instance.  Input to instant is
       the output of nsgmls, whose format is called Element Structure Information Set (ESIS).

Flags
       The following are the possible command line options to instant. Output is sent to the standard output, except
       where otherwise noted.

       -t file
              Translate  the SGML instance to another form, usually suitable for a formatting application.  The file
              is called a translation spec, which specifies how the tags are to be translated. See transpec(5).   By
              convention, names for file use the suffix .ts, for translation spec.

       -s file
              Specifies  a  file  of mappings for SDATA entities in the instance.  The file is of two columns, sepa‐
              rated by one or more tabs.  Spaces can not be used as the separator because spaces  are  allowable  as
              the content of the columns.  The first column is the entity data to map, the second is the string that
              the data is mapped to.  The entity data is typically what is found in public ISO entity sets, such  as
              the  General  Technical  and Publishing sets.  The mappings are specific to the formatting application
              used.  For example, to map the em dash entity, [mdash ], in the Publishing set to the TeX  representa‐
              tion, the first column would be [mdash ] and the second column ---.  Lines beginning with a # are com‐
              ments, and are ignored. Empty lines are also ignored.

       -c file
              Specifies a file of string mappings for characters in the instance.  The file is of two columns, sepa‐
              rated  by white space.  The first is the character to map, the second is the string that the character
              is mapped to.  The mappings are specific to the formatting application used.  Lines beginning with a #
              are comments, and are ignored. Empty lines are also ignored.

       -d     strip newline at the beginning of data records

       -f length
              Set  the  threshold  for  the length, in characters, of an <Entry>, over which it is called a block of
              filled text, to length.

       -o file
              Write all output (except error and warning messages) to file file. By default, output goes to stdout.

       -h     Print a text representation of the hierarchy of the instance elements.  The deeper an  element  is  in
              the tree, the more it is indented. The data content is not printed.

       -u     Print  a summary of the usage of each element in the instance.  Information given includes attributes,
              number of children, and depth in the hierarchy.

       -S     Print some statistics about element usage in the instance, including how often each  element  is  used
              and how much PCDATA is contained.

       -x     Print the context of each element in the instance, from each element to the root of the document tree.

       -v     Validate the SGML instance based on the set of constraints or descriptions in the transpec file.  This
              flags tells instant to turn off normal output, leaving only diagnostics.

       -l directory
              Try to read the translation specs or other files from in the directory directory if not found  in  the
              current  directory.   This is called the library directory.  The environment variable TPT_LIB may also
              be used to specify this.

       -b     Interactive browser mode. The user is prompted for actions, which include moving among  and  examining
              the various nodes in the hierarchy of the instance, displaying information about them, etc.

       -I     List  the  IDs of all elements in the instance that have an ID.  The format is more suitable for other
              programs than humans.  Lines show the ID, element GI, filename, and line, separated by colons.   (This
              depends on the -l option to nsgmls which provide filenames and line numbers.)

       -i id  When  translating  the instance, begin processing at the element whose ID is id instead of the topmost
              element.

       -D variable=value
              Define the variable variable with value value.

       -W     Do not print warning messages.

       -H     Print a help message briefly describing the options.

       file   Read the instance from the file file.  This is expected to be the output of the  program  nsgmls.   If
              not specified, instant reads the instance from its standard input.

       In some cases it makes no sense to combine options.  This is especially true if one of the options is to per‐
       form a translation. No checking is done for this.

Interactive Browser
       These are the commands to the interactive browser:

       cd args ...
              Change to a different element in the hierarchy.  cd id id will change to the element whose ID  is  id.
              cd  N  will change to the Nth child element of the current element.  Several values of N may be speci‐
              fied, so the program will change to successively descending elements in the hierarchy.  The string  ..
              may  appear for N to move up a level in the hierarchy (like in a unix file system).  A / may be speci‐
              fied for N to change to the top of the hierarchy.

       cont   Print the context of each element.

       data N Show the data content (PCDATA, RCDATA, and DATA) of child node N.

       find spec
              Find paths to elements matching spec, where spec may be one of:

              parent gi
                     Find all elements whose parent element is gi.

              child gi
                     Find all elements which have a child element gi.

              gi gi  Find all elements whose name is gi.

              attr name value
                     Find all elements that have a attribute name that have a value value.

       id ID  Show location of element whose ID is ID.  If ID is ?, it will list all IDs with the paths to them.

       ls     List information about the current element in the hierarchy.  This includes element name, line  number
              in  instance, context, attributes and their values, child elements, data directly within this element,
              and the order of the current element among its siblings.

       q relation element
              Report whether or not the current element has the relation relation  to  the  named  element  element.
              Values of relation are the same as for _followrel in transpec reference page.

       stat   Show statistics about the hierarchy.

       sum    Show a tag usage summary about the hierarchy.

       tran transpec outfile
              Write  translated output using trans spec transpec to file outfile.  If outfile is not specified, out‐
              put is sent to stdout.

       tree   Print a textual representation of the hierarchy of the instance, where deeper  elements  are  indented
              more.

       where  Show current position in the hierarchy.

       <control-D>
              Exits the program.

       The  stat,  sum, tree, cont commands take an optional first argument (of any value), which means to only con‐
       sider the entire instance instead of the hierarchy from the current element.

Files
       file.ts
              Translation specification file.

       file.sdata
              SDATA entity mapping file.

       file.cmap
              Character mapping file.

Related Information
       transpec(5), nsgmls(1), Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML), ISO 8879.



                                                      user cmd                                            instant(1)
