INTRO(1)                                         Linux User's Manual                                        INTRO(1)



NAME
       intro - introduction to user commands

DESCRIPTION
       Section 1 of the manual describes user commands and tools, for example, file manipulation tools, shells, com‐
       pilers, web browsers, file and image viewers and editors, and so on.

       All commands yield a status value on termination.  This value can be tested (e.g., in most shells  the  vari‐
       able $?  contains the status of the last executed command) to see whether the command completed successfully.
       A zero exit status is conventionally used to indicate success, and a nonzero status means  that  the  command
       was unsuccessful.  (Details of the exit status can be found in wait(2).)  A nonzero exit status can be in the
       range 1 to 255, and some commands use different nonzero status values to indicate the reason why the  command
       failed.

NOTES
       Linux  is a flavor of UNIX, and as a first approximation all user commands under UNIX work precisely the same
       under Linux (and FreeBSD and lots of other UNIX-like systems).

       Under Linux there are GUIs (graphical user interfaces), where you can point and click and drag, and hopefully
       get  work  done without first reading lots of documentation.  The traditional UNIX environment is a CLI (com‐
       mand line interface), where you type commands to tell the computer what to do.  That is faster and more  pow‐
       erful, but requires finding out what the commands are.  Below a bare minimum, to get started.

   Login
       In  order  to start working, you probably first have to login, that is, give your username and password.  See
       also login(1).  The program login now starts a shell (command interpreter) for you.  In case of  a  graphical
       login,  you  get  a  screen  with  menus or icons and a mouse click will start a shell in a window.  See also
       xterm(1).

   The shell
       One types commands to the shell, the command interpreter.  It is not built-in, but is just a program and  you
       can change your shell.  Everybody has her own favorite one.  The standard one is called sh.  See also ash(1),
       bash(1), csh(1), zsh(1), chsh(1).

       A session might go like

              knuth login: aeb
              Password: ********
              % date
              Tue Aug  6 23:50:44 CEST 2002
              % cal
                   August 2002
              Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa
                           1  2  3
               4  5  6  7  8  9 10
              11 12 13 14 15 16 17
              18 19 20 21 22 23 24
              25 26 27 28 29 30 31

              % ls
              bin  tel
              % ls -l
              total 2
              drwxrwxr-x   2 aeb       1024 Aug  6 23:51 bin
              -rw-rw-r--   1 aeb         37 Aug  6 23:52 tel
              % cat tel
              maja    0501-1136285
              peter   0136-7399214
              % cp tel tel2
              % ls -l
              total 3
              drwxr-xr-x   2 aeb       1024 Aug  6 23:51 bin
              -rw-r--r--   1 aeb         37 Aug  6 23:52 tel
              -rw-r--r--   1 aeb         37 Aug  6 23:53 tel2
              % mv tel tel1
              % ls -l
              total 3
              drwxr-xr-x   2 aeb       1024 Aug  6 23:51 bin
              -rw-r--r--   1 aeb         37 Aug  6 23:52 tel1
              -rw-r--r--   1 aeb         37 Aug  6 23:53 tel2
              % diff tel1 tel2
              % rm tel1
              % grep maja tel2
              maja    0501-1136285
              %
       and here typing Control-D ended the session.  The % here was the command prompt—it  is  the  shell's  way  of
       indicating  that  it  is  ready  for the next command.  The prompt can be customized in lots of ways, and one
       might include stuff like username, machine name, current directory, time, and so on.  An assignment PS1="What
       next, master? " would change the prompt as indicated.

       We see that there are commands date (that gives date and time), and cal (that gives a calendar).

       The  command  ls  lists  the  contents  of the current directory—it tells you what files you have.  With a -l
       option it gives a long listing, that includes the owner and size and date of the file,  and  the  permissions
       people  have  for reading and/or changing the file.  For example, the file "tel" here is 37 bytes long, owned
       by aeb and the owner can read and write it, others can only read it.  Owner and permissions can be changed by
       the commands chown and chmod.

       The command cat will show the contents of a file.  (The name is from "concatenate and print": all files given
       as parameters are concatenated and sent to "standard output", here the terminal screen.)

       The command cp (from "copy") will copy a file.  On the other hand, the command mv (from "move") only  renames
       it.

       The  command  diff  lists  the differences between two files.  Here there was no output because there were no
       differences.

       The command rm (from "remove") deletes the file, and be careful! it is gone.  No wastepaper  basket  or  any‐
       thing.  Deleted means lost.

       The  command  grep  (from "g/re/p") finds occurrences of a string in one or more files.  Here it finds Maja's
       telephone number.

   Pathnames and the current directory
       Files live in a large tree, the file hierarchy.  Each has a pathname describing the path from the root of the
       tree  (which  is  called  /)  to the file.  For example, such a full pathname might be /home/aeb/tel.  Always
       using full pathnames would be inconvenient, and the name of a file in the current directory may  be  abbrevi‐
       ated  by  giving  only  the last component.  That is why "/home/aeb/tel" can be abbreviated to "tel" when the
       current directory is "/home/aeb".

       The command pwd prints the current directory.

       The command cd changes the current directory.  Try "cd /" and "pwd" and "cd" and "pwd".

   Directories
       The command mkdir makes a new directory.

       The command rmdir removes a directory if it is empty, and complains otherwise.

       The command find (with a rather baroque syntax) will find files with given name  or  other  properties.   For
       example,  "find  .  -name  tel"  would find the file "tel" starting in the present directory (which is called
       ".").  And "find / -name tel" would do the same, but starting at the root of the tree.  Large searches  on  a
       multi-GB disk will be time-consuming, and it may be better to use locate(1).

   Disks and filesystems
       The  command  mount  will  attach  the  filesystem  found on some disk (or floppy, or CDROM or so) to the big
       filesystem hierarchy.  And umount detaches it again.  The command df will tell you how much of your  disk  is
       still free.

   Processes
       On  a  UNIX system many user and system processes run simultaneously.  The one you are talking to runs in the
       foreground, the others in the background.  The command ps will show you which processes are active  and  what
       numbers  these  processes  have.   The  command kill allows you to get rid of them.  Without option this is a
       friendly request: please go away.  And "kill -9" followed by the number of the process is an immediate  kill.
       Foreground processes can often be killed by typing Control-C.

   Getting information
       There are thousands of commands, each with many options.  Traditionally commands are documented on man pages,
       (like this one), so that the command "man kill" will document the use of the command "kill"  (and  "man  man"
       document the command "man").  The program man sends the text through some pager, usually less.  Hit the space
       bar to get the next page, hit q to quit.

       In documentation it is customary to refer to man pages by giving the name and section number, as  in  man(1).
       Man pages are terse, and allow you to find quickly some forgotten detail.  For newcomers an introductory text
       with more examples and explanations is useful.

       A lot of GNU/FSF software is provided with info files.  Type "info info" for an introduction on  the  use  of
       the program "info".

       Special  topics  are  often treated in HOWTOs.  Look in /usr/share/doc/howto/en and use a browser if you find
       HTML files there.

SEE ALSO
       standards(7)

COLOPHON
       This page is part of release 3.54 of the Linux man-pages project.  A description of the project, and informa‐
       tion about reporting bugs, can be found at http://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.



Linux                                                2007-11-15                                             INTRO(1)
