IPCRM(1)                                            User Commands                                           IPCRM(1)



NAME
       ipcrm - remove a message queue, semaphore set or shared memory id

SYNOPSIS
       ipcrm [ -M key | -m id | -Q key | -q id | -S key | -s id ] ...

       deprecated usage

       ipcrm {shm|msg|sem} id...

DESCRIPTION
       ipcrm  removes System V interprocess communication (IPC) objects and associated data structures from the sys‐
       tem.  In order to delete such objects, you must be superuser, or the creator or owner of the object.

       System V IPC objects are of three types: shared memory, message queues, and semaphores.  Deletion of  a  mes‐
       sage  queue or semaphore object is immediate (regardless of whether any process still holds an IPC identifier
       for the object).  A shared memory object is only removed after all currently attached processes have detached
       (shmdt(2)) the object from their virtual address space.

       Two syntax styles are supported.  The old Linux historical syntax specifies a three letter keyword indicating
       which class of object is to be deleted, followed by one or more IPC identifiers for objects of this type.

       The SUS-compliant syntax allows the specification of zero or more objects of all three types in a single com‐
       mand line, with objects specified either by key or by identifier. (See below.)  Both keys and identifiers may
       be specified in decimal, hexadecimal (specified with an initial '0x' or '0X'), or octal  (specified  with  an
       initial '0').


OPTIONS
       -M shmkey
              removes the shared memory segment created with shmkey after the last detach is performed.

       -m shmid
              removes the shared memory segment identified by shmid after the last detach is performed.

       -Q msgkey
              removes the message queue created with msgkey.

       -q msgid
              removes the message queue identified by msgid.

       -S semkey
              removes the semaphore created with semkey.

       -s semid
              removes the semaphore identified by semid.

       The  details  of  the removes are described in msgctl(2), shmctl(2), and semctl(2).  The identifiers and keys
       may be found by using ipcs(1).

NOTES
       In its first Linux implementation, ipcrm used the deprecated syntax shown  in  the  SYNOPSIS.   Functionality
       present  in  other *nix implementations of ipcrm has since been added, namely the ability to delete resources
       by key (not just identifier), and to respect the same command-line syntax.  For  backward  compatibility  the
       previous syntax is still supported.

SEE ALSO
       ipcs(1), ipcmk(1), msgctl(2), msgget(2), semctl(2), semget(2), shmctl(2), shmdt(2), shmget(2), ftok(3)

AVAILABILITY
       The    ipcrm    command    is    part    of    the    util-linux    package    and    is    available    from
       ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.



util-linux                                           March 2002                                             IPCRM(1)
