jarsigner(1)                                       Security Tools                                       jarsigner(1)



NAME
       jarsigner - Signs and verifies Java Archive (JAR) files.

SYNOPSIS
       jarsigner [ options ] jar-file alias

       jarsigner -verify [ options ] jar-file [alias ...]


       options
              The command-line options. See Options.

       -verify
              The -verify option can take zero or more keystore alias names after the JAR file name. When the
              -verify option is specified, the jarsigner command checks that the certificate used to verify each
              signed entry in the JAR file matches one of the keystore aliases. The aliases are defined in the
              keystore specified by -keystore or the default keystore.

              If you also specified the -strict option, and the jarsigner command detected severe warnings, the
              message, "jar verified, with signer errors" is displayed.

       jar-file
              The JAR file to be signed.

              If you also specified the -strict option, and the jarsigner command detected severe warnings, the
              message, "jar signed, with signer errors" is displayed.

       alias  The aliases are defined in the keystore specified by -keystore or the default keystore.

DESCRIPTION
       The jarsigner tool has two purposes:

       · To sign Java Archive (JAR) files.

       · To verify the signatures and integrity of signed JAR files.

       The JAR feature enables the packaging of class files, images, sounds, and other digital data in a single file
       for faster and easier distribution. A tool named jar enables developers to produce JAR files. (Technically,
       any zip file can also be considered a JAR file, although when created by the jar command or processed by the
       jarsigner command, JAR files also contain a META-INF/MANIFEST.MF file.)

       A digital signature is a string of bits that is computed from some data (the data being signed) and the
       private key of an entity (a person, company, and so on). Similar to a handwritten signature, a digital
       signature has many useful characteristics:

       · Its authenticity can be verified by a computation that uses the public key corresponding to the private key
         used to generate the signature.

       · It cannot be forged, assuming the private key is kept secret.

       · It is a function of the data signed and thus cannot be claimed to be the signature for other data as well.

       · The signed data cannot be changed. If the data is changed, then the signature cannot be verified as
         authentic.

       To generate an entity's signature for a file, the entity must first have a public/private key pair associated
       with it and one or more certificates that authenticate its public key. A certificate is a digitally signed
       statement from one entity that says that the public key of another entity has a particular value.

       The jarsigner command uses key and certificate information from a keystore to generate digital signatures for
       JAR files. A keystore is a database of private keys and their associated X.509 certificate chains that
       authenticate the corresponding public keys. The keytool command is used to create and administer keystores.

       The jarsigner command uses an entity's private key to generate a signature. The signed JAR file contains,
       among other things, a copy of the certificate from the keystore for the public key corresponding to the
       private key used to sign the file. The jarsigner command can verify the digital signature of the signed JAR
       file using the certificate inside it (in its signature block file).

       The jarsigner command can generate signatures that include a time stamp that lets a systems or deployer
       (including Java Plug-in) to check whether the JAR file was signed while the signing certificate was still
       valid. In addition, APIs allow applications to obtain the timestamp information.

       At this time, the jarsigner command can only sign JAR files created by the jar command or zip files. JAR
       files are the same as zip files, except they also have a META-INF/MANIFEST.MF file. A META-INF/MANIFEST.MF
       file is created when the jarsigner command signs a zip file.

       The default jarsigner command behavior is to sign a JAR or zip file. Use the -verify option to verify a
       signed JAR file.

       The jarsigner command also attempts to validate the signer's certificate after signing or verifying. If there
       is a validation error or any other problem, the command generates warning messages. If you specify the
       -strict option, then the command treats severe warnings as errors. See Errors and Warnings.

   KEYSTORE ALIASES
       All keystore entities are accessed with unique aliases.

       When you use the jarsigner command to sign a JAR file, you must specify the alias for the keystore entry that
       contains the private key needed to generate the signature. For example, the following command signs the JAR
       file named MyJARFile.jar with the private key associated with the alias duke in the keystore named mystore in
       the working directory. Because no output file is specified, it overwrites MyJARFile.jar with the signed JAR
       file.

       jarsigner -keystore /working/mystore -storepass <keystore password>
             -keypass <private key password> MyJARFile.jar duke

       Keystores are protected with a password, so the store password must be specified. You are prompted for it
       when you do not specify it on the command line. Similarly, private keys are protected in a keystore with a
       password, so the private key's password must be specified, and you are prompted for the password when you do
       not specify it on the command line and it is not the same as the store password.

   KEYSTORE LOCATION
       The jarsigner command has a -keystore option for specifying the URL of the keystore to be used. The keystore
       is by default stored in a file named .keystore in the user's home directory, as determined by the user.home
       system property.

       On Oracle Solaris systems, user.home defaults to the user's home directory.

       The input stream from the -keystore option is passed to the KeyStore.load method. If NONE is specified as the
       URL, then a null stream is passed to the KeyStore.load method. NONE should be specified when the KeyStore
       class is not file based, for example, when it resides on a hardware token device.

   KEYSTORE IMPLEMENTATION
       The KeyStore class provided in the java.security package supplies a number of well-defined interfaces to
       access and modify the information in a keystore. You can have multiple different concrete implementations,
       where each implementation is for a particular type of keystore.

       Currently, there are two command-line tools that use keystore implementations (keytool and jarsigner), and a
       GUI-based tool named Policy Tool. Because the KeyStore class is publicly available, JDK users can write
       additional security applications that use it.

       There is a built-in default implementation provided by Oracle that implements the keystore as a file, that
       uses a proprietary keystore type (format) named JKS. The built-in implementation protects each private key
       with its individual password and protects the integrity of the entire keystore with a (possibly different)
       password.

       Keystore implementations are provider-based, which means the application interfaces supplied by the KeyStore
       class are implemented in terms of a Service Provider Interface (SPI). There is a corresponding abstract
       KeystoreSpi class, also in the java.security package, that defines the Service Provider Interface methods
       that providers must implement. The term provider refers to a package or a set of packages that supply a
       concrete implementation of a subset of services that can be accessed by the Java Security API. To provide a
       keystore implementation, clients must implement a provider and supply a KeystoreSpi subclass implementation,
       as described in How to Implement a Provider in the Java Cryptography Architecture at
       http://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/security/crypto/HowToImplAProvider.html

       Applications can choose different types of keystore implementations from different providers, with the
       getInstance factory method in the KeyStore class. A keystore type defines the storage and data format of the
       keystore information and the algorithms used to protect private keys in the keystore and the integrity of the
       keystore itself. Keystore implementations of different types are not compatible.

       The jarsigner and policytool commands can read file-based keystores from any location that can be specified
       using a URL. In addition, these commands can read non-file-based keystores such as those provided by MSCAPI
       on Windows and PKCS11 on all platforms.

       For the jarsigner and keytool commands, you can specify a keystore type at the command line with the
       -storetype option. For Policy Tool, you can specify a keystore type with the Edit command in the KeyStore
       menu.

       If you do not explicitly specify a keystore type, then the tools choose a keystore implementation based on
       the value of the keystore.type property specified in the security properties file. The security properties
       file is called java.security, and it resides in the JDK security properties directory,
       java.home/lib/security, where java.home is the runtime environment's directory. The jre directory in the JDK
       or the top-level directory of the Java Runtime Environment (JRE).

       Each tool gets the keystore.type value and then examines all the installed providers until it finds one that
       implements keystores of that type. It then uses the keystore implementation from that provider.

       The KeyStore class defines a static method named getDefaultType that lets applications and applets retrieve
       the value of the keystore.type property. The following line of code creates an instance of the default
       keystore type as specified in the keystore.type property:

       KeyStore keyStore = KeyStore.getInstance(KeyStore.getDefaultType());

       The default keystore type is jks (the proprietary type of the keystore implementation provided by Oracle).
       This is specified by the following line in the security properties file:

       keystore.type=jks

       Case does not matter in keystore type designations. For example, JKS is the same as jks.

       To have the tools use a keystore implementation other than the default, change that line to specify a
       different keystore type. For example, if you have a provider package that supplies a keystore implementation
       for a keystore type called pkcs12, then change the line to the following:

       keystore.type=pkcs12

       Note: If you use the PKCS 11 provider package, then see "KeyTool" and "JarSigner" in Java PKCS #11 Reference
       Guide at http://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/security/p11guide.html

   SUPPORTED ALGORITHMS
       By default, the jarsigner command signs a JAR file using one of the following algorithms:

       · Digital Signature Algorithm (DSA) with the SHA1 digest algorithm

       · RSA algorithm with the SHA256 digest algorithm

       · Elliptic Curve (EC) cryptography algorithm with the SHA256 with Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm
         (ECDSA).

       If the signer's public and private keys are DSA keys, then jarsigner signs the JAR file with the SHA1withDSA
       algorithm. If the signer's keys are RSA keys, then jarsigner attempts to sign the JAR file with the
       SHA256withRSA algorithm. If the signer's keys are EC keys, then jarsigner signs the JAR file with the
       SHA256withECDSA algorithm.

       These default signature algorithms can be overridden using the -sigalg option.

   THE SIGNED JAR FILE
       When the jarsigner command is used to sign a JAR file, the output signed JAR file is exactly the same as the
       input JAR file, except that it has two additional files placed in the META-INF directory:

       · A signature file with an .SF extension

       · A signature block file with a .DSA, .RSA, or .EC extension

       The base file names for these two files come from the value of the -sigFile option. For example, when the
       option is -sigFile MKSIGN, the files are named MKSIGN.SF and MKSIGN.DSA

       If no -sigfile option appears on the command line, then the base file name for the .SF and .DSA files is the
       first 8 characters of the alias name specified on the command line, all converted to uppercase. If the alias
       name has fewer than 8 characters, then the full alias name is used. If the alias name contains any characters
       that are not allowed in a signature file name, then each such character is converted to an underscore (_)
       character in forming the file name. Valid characters include letters, digits, underscores, and hyphens.

       Signature File

       A signature file (.SF file) looks similar to the manifest file that is always included in a JAR file when the
       jarsigner command is used to sign the file. For each source file included in the JAR file, the .SF file has
       three lines, such as in the manifest file, that list the following:

       · File name

       · Name of the digest algorithm (SHA)

       · SHA digest value

       In the manifest file, the SHA digest value for each source file is the digest (hash) of the binary data in
       the source file. In the .SF file, the digest value for a specified source file is the hash of the three lines
       in the manifest file for the source file.

       The signature file, by default, includes a header with a hash of the whole manifest file. The header also
       contains a hash of the manifest header. The presence of the header enables verification optimization. See JAR
       File Verification.

       Signature Block File

       The .SF file is signed and the signature is placed in the signature block file. This file also contains,
       encoded inside it, the certificate or certificate chain from the keystore that authenticates the public key
       corresponding to the private key used for signing. The file has the extension .DSA, .RSA, or .EC, depending
       on the digest algorithm used.

   SIGNATURE TIME STAMP
       The jarsigner command can generate and store a signature time stamp when signing a JAR file. In addition,
       jarsigner supports alternative signing mechanisms. This behavior is optional and is controlled by the user at
       the time of signing through these options. See Options.

       -tsa url
       -tsacert alias
       -altsigner class
       -altsignerpath classpathlist
       -tsapolicyid policyid


   JAR FILE VERIFICATION
       A successful JAR file verification occurs when the signatures are valid, and none of the files that were in
       the JAR file when the signatures were generated have changed since then. JAR file verification involves the
       following steps:

       1.  Verify the signature of the .SF file.

           The verification ensures that the signature stored in each signature block (.DSA) file was generated
           using the private key corresponding to the public key whose certificate (or certificate chain) also
           appears in the .DSA file. It also ensures that the signature is a valid signature of the corresponding
           signature (.SF) file, and thus the .SF file was not tampered with.

       2.  Verify the digest listed in each entry in the .SF file with each corresponding section in the manifest.

           The .SF file by default includes a header that contains a hash of the entire manifest file. When the
           header is present, the verification can check to see whether or not the hash in the header matches the
           hash of the manifest file. If there is a match, then verification proceeds to the next step.

           If there is no match, then a less optimized verification is required to ensure that the hash in each
           source file information section in the .SF file equals the hash of its corresponding section in the
           manifest file. See Signature File.

           One reason the hash of the manifest file that is stored in the .SF file header might not equal the hash
           of the current manifest file is that one or more files were added to the JAR file (with the jar tool)
           after the signature and .SF file were generated. When the jar tool is used to add files, the manifest
           file is changed by adding sections to it for the new files, but the .SF file is not changed. A
           verification is still considered successful when none of the files that were in the JAR file when the
           signature was generated have been changed since then. This happens when the hashes in the non-header
           sections of the .SF file equal the hashes of the corresponding sections in the manifest file.

       3.  Read each file in the JAR file that has an entry in the .SF file. While reading, compute the file's
           digest and compare the result with the digest for this file in the manifest section. The digests should
           be the same or verification fails.

           If any serious verification failures occur during the verification process, then the process is stopped
           and a security exception is thrown. The jarsigner command catches and displays the exception.

       Note: You should read any addition warnings (or errors if you specified the -strict option), as well as the
       content of the certificate (by specifying the -verbose and -certs options) to determine if the signature can
       be trusted.

   MULTIPLE SIGNATURES FOR A JAR FILE
       A JAR file can be signed by multiple people by running the jarsigner command on the file multiple times and
       specifying the alias for a different person each time, as follows:

       jarsigner myBundle.jar susan
       jarsigner myBundle.jar kevin

       When a JAR file is signed multiple times, there are multiple .SF and .DSA files in the resulting JAR file,
       one pair for each signature. In the previous example, the output JAR file includes files with the following
       names:

       SUSAN.SF
       SUSAN.DSA
       KEVIN.SF
       KEVIN.DSA


OPTIONS
       The following sections describe the various jarsigner options. Be aware of the following standards:

       · All option names are preceded by a minus sign (-).

       · The options can be provided in any order.

       · Items that are in italics or underlined (option values) represent the actual values that must be supplied.

       · The -storepass, -keypass, -sigfile, -sigalg, -digestalg, -signedjar, and TSA-related options are only
         relevant when signing a JAR file; they are not relevant when verifying a signed JAR file. The -keystore
         option is relevant for signing and verifying a JAR file. In addition, aliases are specified when signing
         and verifying a JAR file.

       -keystore url
         Specifies the URL that tells the keystore location. This defaults to the file .keystore in the user's home
         directory, as determined by the user.home system property.

         A keystore is required when signing. You must explicitly specify a keystore when the default keystore does
         not exist or if you want to use one other than the default.

         A keystore is not required when verifying, but if one is specified or the default exists and the -verbose
         option was also specified, then additional information is output regarding whether or not any of the
         certificates used to verify the JAR file are contained in that keystore.

         The -keystore argument can be a file name and path specification rather than a URL, in which case it is
         treated the same as a file: URL, for example, the following are equivalent:

         -keystore filePathAndName
         -keystore file:filePathAndName



         If the Sun PKCS #11 provider was configured in the java.security security properties file (located in the
         JRE's $JAVA_HOME/lib/security directory), then the keytool and jarsigner tools can operate on the PKCS #11
         token by specifying these options:

         -keystore NONE
         -storetype PKCS11



         For example, the following command lists the contents of the configured PKCS#11 token:

         keytool -keystore NONE -storetype PKCS11 -list



       -storetype storetype
         Specifies the type of keystore to be instantiated. The default keystore type is the one that is specified
         as the value of the keystore.type property in the security properties file, which is returned by the static
         getDefaultType method in java.security.KeyStore.

         The PIN for a PCKS #11 token can also be specified with the -storepass option. If none is specified, then
         the keytool and jarsigner commands prompt for the token PIN. If the token has a protected authentication
         path (such as a dedicated PIN-pad or a biometric reader), then the -protected option must be specified and
         no password options can be specified.

       -storepass[:env | :file] argument
         Specifies the password that is required to access the keystore. This is only needed when signing (not
         verifying) a JAR file. In that case, if a -storepass option is not provided at the command line, then the
         user is prompted for the password.

         If the modifier env or file is not specified, then the password has the value argument. Otherwise, the
         password is retrieved as follows:

         · env: Retrieve the password from the environment variable named argument.

         · file: Retrieve the password from the file named argument.


       Note: The password should not be specified on the command line or in a script unless it is for testing
       purposes, or you are on a secure system.

       -keypass [:env | :file] argument
         Specifies the password used to protect the private key of the keystore entry addressed by the alias
         specified on the command line. The password is required when using jarsigner to sign a JAR file. If no
         password is provided on the command line, and the required password is different from the store password,
         then the user is prompted for it.

         If the modifier env or file is not specified, then the password has the value argument. Otherwise, the
         password is retrieved as follows:

         · env: Retrieve the password from the environment variable named argument.

         · file: Retrieve the password from the file named argument.


       Note: The password should not be specified on the command line or in a script unless it is for testing
       purposes, or you are on a secure system.

       -sigfile file
         Specifies the base file name to be used for the generated .SF and .DSA files. For example, if file is
         DUKESIGN, then the generated .SF and .DSA files are named DUKESIGN.SF and DUKESIGN.DSA, and placed in the
         META-INF directory of the signed JAR file.

         The characters in the file must come from the set a-zA-Z0-9_-. Only letters, numbers, underscore, and
         hyphen characters are allowed. All lowercase characters are converted to uppercase for the .SF and .DSA
         file names.

         If no -sigfile option appears on the command line, then the base file name for the .SF and .DSA files is
         the first 8 characters of the alias name specified on the command line, all converted to upper case. If the
         alias name has fewer than 8 characters, then the full alias name is used. If the alias name contains any
         characters that are not valid in a signature file name, then each such character is converted to an
         underscore (_) character to form the file name.

       -sigalg algorithm
         Specifies the name of the signature algorithm to use to sign the JAR file.

         For a list of standard signature algorithm names, see "Appendix A: Standard Names" in the Java Cryptography
         Architecture (JCA) Reference Guide at
         http://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/security/crypto/CryptoSpec.html#AppA

         This algorithm must be compatible with the private key used to sign the JAR file. If this option is not
         specified, then SHA1withDSA, SHA256withRSA, or SHA256withECDSA are used depending on the type of private
         key. There must either be a statically installed provider supplying an implementation of the specified
         algorithm or the user must specify one with the -providerClass option; otherwise, the command will not
         succeed.

       -digestalg algorithm
         Specifies the name of the message digest algorithm to use when digesting the entries of a JAR file.

         For a list of standard message digest algorithm names, see "Appendix A: Standard Names" in the Java
         Cryptography Architecture (JCA) Reference Guide at
         http://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/security/crypto/CryptoSpec.html#AppA

         If this option is not specified, then SHA256 is used. There must either be a statically installed provider
         supplying an implementation of the specified algorithm or the user must specify one with the -providerClass
         option; otherwise, the command will not succeed.

       -certs
         If the -certs option appears on the command line with the -verify and -verbose options, then the output
         includes certificate information for each signer of the JAR file. This information includes the name of the
         type of certificate (stored in the .DSA file) that certifies the signer's public key, and if the
         certificate is an X.509 certificate (an instance of the java.security.cert.X509Certificate), then the
         distinguished name of the signer.

         The keystore is also examined. If no keystore value is specified on the command line, then the default
         keystore file (if any) is checked. If the public key certificate for a signer matches an entry in the
         keystore, then the alias name for the keystore entry for that signer is displayed in parentheses.

       -certchain file
         Specifies the certificate chain to be used when the certificate chain associated with the private key of
         the keystore entry that is addressed by the alias specified on the command line is not complete. This can
         happen when the keystore is located on a hardware token where there is not enough capacity to hold a
         complete certificate chain. The file can be a sequence of concatenated X.509 certificates, or a single
         PKCS#7 formatted data block, either in binary encoding format or in printable encoding format (also known
         as Base64 encoding) as defined by the Internet RFC 1421 standard. See Internet RFC 1421 Certificate
         Encoding Standard and http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1421.

       -verbose
         When the -verbose option appears on the command line, it indicates verbose mode, which causes jarsigner to
         output extra information about the progress of the JAR signing or verification.

       -internalsf
         In the past, the .DSA (signature block) file generated when a JAR file was signed included a complete
         encoded copy of the .SF file (signature file) also generated. This behavior has been changed. To reduce the
         overall size of the output JAR file, the .DSA file by default does not contain a copy of the .SF file
         anymore. If -internalsf appears on the command line, then the old behavior is utilized. This option is
         useful for testing. In practice, do not use the -internalsf option because it incurs higher overhead.

       -sectionsonly
         If the -sectionsonly option appears on the command line, then the .SF file (signature file) generated when
         a JAR file is signed does not include a header that contains a hash of the whole manifest file. It contains
         only the information and hashes related to each individual source file included in the JAR file. See
         Signature File.

         By default, this header is added, as an optimization. When the header is present, whenever the JAR file is
         verified, the verification can first check to see whether the hash in the header matches the hash of the
         whole manifest file. When there is a match, verification proceeds to the next step. When there is no match,
         it is necessary to do a less optimized verification that the hash in each source file information section
         in the .SF file equals the hash of its corresponding section in the manifest file. See JAR File
         Verification.

         The -sectionsonly option is primarily used for testing. It should not be used other than for testing
         because using it incurs higher overhead.

       -protected
         Values can be either true or false. Specify true when a password must be specified through a protected
         authentication path such as a dedicated PIN reader.

       -providerClass provider-class-name
         Used to specify the name of cryptographic service provider's master class file when the service provider is
         not listed in the java.security security properties file.

         Used with the -providerArg ConfigFilePath option, the keytool and jarsigner tools install the provider
         dynamically and use ConfigFilePath for the path to the token configuration file. The following example
         shows a command to list a PKCS #11 keystore when the Oracle PKCS #11 provider was not configured in the
         security properties file.

         jarsigner -keystore NONE -storetype PKCS11 \
                   -providerClass sun.security.pkcs11.SunPKCS11 \
                   -providerArg /mydir1/mydir2/token.config \
                   -list



       -providerName providerName
         If more than one provider was configured in the java.security security properties file, then you can use
         the -providerName option to target a specific provider instance. The argument to this option is the name of
         the provider.

         For the Oracle PKCS #11 provider, providerName is of the form SunPKCS11-TokenName, where TokenName is the
         name suffix that the provider instance has been configured with, as detailed in the configuration
         attributes table. For example, the following command lists the contents of the PKCS #11 keystore provider
         instance with name suffix SmartCard:

         jarsigner -keystore NONE -storetype PKCS11 \
                 -providerName SunPKCS11-SmartCard \
                 -list



       -Jjavaoption
         Passes through the specified javaoption string directly to the Java interpreter. The jarsigner command is a
         wrapper around the interpreter. This option should not contain any spaces. It is useful for adjusting the
         execution environment or memory usage. For a list of possible interpreter options, type java -h or java -X
         at the command line.

       -tsa url
         If -tsa http://example.tsa.url appears on the command line when signing a JAR file then a time stamp is
         generated for the signature. The URL, http://example.tsa.url, identifies the location of the Time Stamping
         Authority (TSA) and overrides any URL found with the -tsacert option. The -tsa option does not require the
         TSA public key certificate to be present in the keystore.

         To generate the time stamp, jarsigner communicates with the TSA with the Time-Stamp Protocol (TSP) defined
         in RFC 3161. When successful, the time stamp token returned by the TSA is stored with the signature in the
         signature block file.

       -tsacert alias
         When -tsacert alias appears on the command line when signing a JAR file, a time stamp is generated for the
         signature. The alias identifies the TSA public key certificate in the keystore that is in effect. The
         entry's certificate is examined for a Subject Information Access extension that contains a URL identifying
         the location of the TSA.

         The TSA public key certificate must be present in the keystore when using the -tsacert option.

       -tsapolicyid policyid
         Specifies the object identifier (OID) that identifies the policy ID to be sent to the TSA server. If this
         option is not specified, no policy ID is sent and the TSA server will choose a default policy ID.

         Object identifiers are defined by X.696, which is an ITU Telecommunication Standardization Sector (ITU-T)
         standard. These identifiers are typically period-separated sets of non-negative digits like 1.2.3.4, for
         example.

       -altsigner class
         This option specifies an alternative signing mechanism. The fully qualified class name identifies a class
         file that extends the com.sun.jarsigner.ContentSigner abstract class. The path to this class file is
         defined by the -altsignerpath option. If the -altsigner option is used, then the jarsigner command uses the
         signing mechanism provided by the specified class. Otherwise, the jarsigner command uses its default
         signing mechanism.

         For example, to use the signing mechanism provided by a class named com.sun.sun.jarsigner.AuthSigner, use
         the jarsigner option -altsigner com.sun.jarsigner.AuthSigner.

       -altsignerpath classpathlist
         Specifies the path to the class file and any JAR file it depends on. The class file name is specified with
         the -altsigner option. If the class file is in a JAR file, then this option specifies the path to that JAR
         file.

         An absolute path or a path relative to the current directory can be specified. If classpathlist contains
         multiple paths or JAR files, then they should be separated with a colon (:) on Oracle Solaris and a
         semicolon (;) on Windows. This option is not necessary when the class is already in the search path.

         The following example shows how to specify the path to a JAR file that contains the class file. The JAR
         file name is included.

         -altsignerpath /home/user/lib/authsigner.jar



         The following example shows how to specify the path to the JAR file that contains the class file. The JAR
         file name is omitted.

         -altsignerpath /home/user/classes/com/sun/tools/jarsigner/



       -strict
         During the signing or verifying process, the command may issue warning messages. If you specify this
         option, the exit code of the tool reflects the severe warning messages that this command found. See Errors
         and Warnings.

       -verbose suboptions
         For the verifying process, the -verbose option takes suboptions to determine how much information is shown.
         If the -certs option is also specified, then the default mode (or suboption all) displays each entry as it
         is being processed, and after that, the certificate information for each signer of the JAR file. If the
         -certs and the -verbose:grouped suboptions are specified, then entries with the same signer info are
         grouped and displayed together with their certificate information. If -certs and the -verbose:summary
         suboptions are specified, then entries with the same signer information are grouped and displayed together
         with their certificate information. Details about each entry are summarized and displayed as one entry (and
         more). See Examples.

ERRORS AND WARNINGS
       During the signing or verifying process, the jarsigner command may issue various errors or warnings.

       If there is a failure, the jarsigner command exits with code 1. If there is no failure, but there are one or
       more severe warnings, the jarsigner command exits with code 0 when the -strict option is not specified, or
       exits with the OR-value of the warning codes when the -strict is specified. If there is only informational
       warnings or no warning at all, the command always exits with code 0.

       For example, if a certificate used to sign an entry is expired and has a KeyUsage extension that does not
       allow it to sign a file, the jarsigner command exits with code 12 (=4+8) when the -strict option is
       specified.

       Note: Exit codes are reused because only the values from 0 to 255 are legal on Unix-based operating systems.

       The following sections describes the names, codes, and descriptions of the errors and warnings that the
       jarsigner command can issue.

   FAILURE
       Reasons why the jarsigner command fails include (but are not limited to) a command line parsing error, the
       inability to find a keypair to sign the JAR file, or the verification of a signed JAR fails.

       failure
              Code 1. The signing or verifying fails.

   SEVERE WARNINGS
       Note: Severe warnings are reported as errors if you specify the -strict option.

       Reasons why the jarsigner command issues a severe warning include the certificate used to sign the JAR file
       has an error or the signed JAR file has other problems.

       hasExpiredCert
              Code 4. This jar contains entries whose signer certificate has expired.

       notYetValidCert
              Code 4. This jar contains entries whose signer certificate is not yet valid.

       chainNotValidated
              Code 4. This jar contains entries whose certificate chain cannot be correctly validated.

       badKeyUsage
              Code 8. This jar contains entries whose signer certificate's KeyUsage extension doesn't allow code
              signing.

       badExtendedKeyUsage
              Code 8. This jar contains entries whose signer certificate's ExtendedKeyUsage extension doesn't allow
              code signing.

       badNetscapeCertType
              Code 8. This jar contains entries whose signer certificate's NetscapeCertType extension doesn't allow
              code signing.

       hasUnsignedEntry
              Code 16. This jar contains unsigned entries which have not been integrity-checked.

       notSignedByAlias
              Code 32. This jar contains signed entries which are not signed by the specified alias(es).

       aliasNotInStore
              Code 32. This jar contains signed entries that are not signed by alias in this keystore.

   INFORMATIONAL WARNINGS
       Informational warnings include those that are not errors but regarded as bad practice. They do not have a
       code.

       hasExpiringCert
              This jar contains entries whose signer certificate will expire within six months.

       noTimestamp
              This jar contains signatures that does not include a timestamp. Without a timestamp, users may not be
              able to validate this JAR file after the signer certificate's expiration date (YYYY-MM-DD) or after
              any future revocation date.

EXAMPLES
   SIGN A JAR FILE
       Use the following command to sign bundle.jar with the private key of a user whose keystore alias is jane in a
       keystore named mystore in the working directory and name the signed JAR file sbundle.jar:

       jarsigner -keystore /working/mystore
           -storepass <keystore password>
           -keypass <private key password>
           -signedjar sbundle.jar bundle.jar jane

       There is no -sigfile specified in the previous command so the generated .SF and .DSA files to be placed in
       the signed JAR file have default names based on the alias name. They are named JANE.SF and JANE.DSA.

       If you want to be prompted for the store password and the private key password, then you could shorten the
       previous command to the following:

       jarsigner -keystore /working/mystore
           -signedjar sbundle.jar bundle.jar jane

       If the keystore is the default keystore (.keystore in your home directory), then you do not need to specify a
       keystore, as follows:

       jarsigner -signedjar sbundle.jar bundle.jar jane

       If you want the signed JAR file to overwrite the input JAR file (bundle.jar), then you do not need to specify
       a -signedjar option, as follows:

       jarsigner bundle.jar jane


   VERIFY A SIGNED JAR FILE
       To verify a signed JAR file to ensure that the signature is valid and the JAR file was not been tampered
       with, use a command such as the following:

       jarsigner -verify sbundle.jar

       When the verification is successful, jar verified is displayed. Otherwise, an error message is displayed. You
       can get more information when you use the -verbose option. A sample use of jarsigner with the-verbose option
       follows:

       jarsigner -verify -verbose sbundle.jar
                  198 Fri Sep 26 16:14:06 PDT 1997 META-INF/MANIFEST.MF
                  199 Fri Sep 26 16:22:10 PDT 1997 META-INF/JANE.SF
                 1013 Fri Sep 26 16:22:10 PDT 1997 META-INF/JANE.DSA
           smk   2752 Fri Sep 26 16:12:30 PDT 1997 AclEx.class
           smk    849 Fri Sep 26 16:12:46 PDT 1997 test.class
             s = signature was verified
             m = entry is listed in manifest
             k = at least one certificate was found in keystore
           jar verified.


   VERIFICATION WITH CERTIFICATE INFORMATION
       If you specify the -certs option with the -verify and -verbose options, then the output includes certificate
       information for each signer of the JAR file. The information includes the certificate type, the signer
       distinguished name information (when it is an X.509 certificate), and in parentheses, the keystore alias for
       the signer when the public key certificate in the JAR file matches the one in a keystore entry, for example:

       jarsigner -keystore /working/mystore -verify -verbose -certs myTest.jar
                  198 Fri Sep 26 16:14:06 PDT 1997 META-INF/MANIFEST.MF
                  199 Fri Sep 26 16:22:10 PDT 1997 META-INF/JANE.SF
                 1013 Fri Sep 26 16:22:10 PDT 1997 META-INF/JANE.DSA
                  208 Fri Sep 26 16:23:30 PDT 1997 META-INF/JAVATEST.SF
                 1087 Fri Sep 26 16:23:30 PDT 1997 META-INF/JAVATEST.DSA
           smk   2752 Fri Sep 26 16:12:30 PDT 1997 Tst.class
             X.509, CN=Test Group, OU=Java Software, O=Oracle, L=CUP, S=CA, C=US (javatest)
             X.509, CN=Jane Smith, OU=Java Software, O=Oracle, L=cup, S=ca, C=us (jane)
             s = signature was verified
             m = entry is listed in manifest
             k = at least one certificate was found in keystore
           jar verified.

       If the certificate for a signer is not an X.509 certificate, then there is no distinguished name information.
       In that case, just the certificate type and the alias are shown. For example, if the certificate is a PGP
       certificate, and the alias is bob, then you would get: PGP, (bob).

SEE ALSO
       · jar(1)

       · keytool(1)

       · Trail: Security Features in Java SE at http://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/security/index.html



JDK 8                                             21 November 2013                                      jarsigner(1)
