javah(1)                                             Basic Tools                                            javah(1)



NAME
       javah - Generates C header and source files from a Java class.

SYNOPSIS
       javah [ options ] fully-qualified-class-name ...


       options
              The command-line options. See Options.

       fully-qualified-class-name
              The fully qualified location of the classes to be converted to C header and source files.

DESCRIPTION
       The javah command generates C header and source files that are needed to implement native methods. The
       generated header and source files are used by C programs to reference an object's instance variables from
       native source code. The .h file contains a struct definition with a layout that parallels the layout of the
       corresponding class. The fields in the struct correspond to instance variables in the class.

       The name of the header file and the structure declared within it are derived from the name of the class. When
       the class passed to the javah command is inside a package, the package name is added to the beginning of both
       the header file name and the structure name. Underscores (_) are used as name delimiters.

       By default the javah command creates a header file for each class listed on the command line and puts the
       files in the current directory. Use the -stubs option to create source files. Use the -o option to
       concatenate the results for all listed classes into a single file.

       The Java Native Interface (JNI) does not require header information or stub files. The javah command can
       still be used to generate native method function prototypes needed for JNI-style native methods. The javah
       command produces JNI-style output by default and places the result in the .h file.

OPTIONS
       -o outputfile
              Concatenates the resulting header or source files for all the classes listed on the command line into
              an output file. Only one of -o or -d can be used.

       -d directory
              Sets the directory where the javah command saves the header files or the stub files. Only one of -d or
              -o can be used.

       -stubs
              Causes the javah command to generate C declarations from the Java object file.

       -verbose
              Indicates verbose output and causes the javah command to print a message to stdout about the status of
              the generated files.

       -help
              Prints a help message for javah usage.

       -version
              Prints javah command release information.

       -jni
              Causes the javah command to create an output file containing JNI-style native method function
              prototypes. This is the default output; use of -jni is optional.

       -classpath path
              Specifies the path the javah command uses to look up classes. Overrides the default or the CLASSPATH
              environment variable when it is set. Directories are separated by colons on Oracle Solaris and
              semicolons on Windows. The general format for path is:

              Oracle Solaris:

              .:your-path

              Example: .:/home/avh/classes:/usr/local/java/classes

              Windows:

              .;your-path

              Example: .;C:\users\dac\classes;C:\tools\java\classes

              As a special convenience, a class path element that contains a base name of * is considered equivalent
              to specifying a list of all the files in the directory with the extension .jar or .JAR.

              For example, if directory mydir contains a.jar and b.JAR, then the class path element mydir/* is
              expanded to a A.jar:b.JAR, except that the order of jar files is unspecified. All JAR files in the
              specified directory, including hidden ones, are included in the list. A class path entry that consists
              of * expands to a list of all the JAR files in the current directory. The CLASSPATH environment
              variable, where defined, is similarly expanded. Any class path wild card expansion occurs before the
              Java Virtual Machine (JVM) is started. A Java program will never see unexpanded wild cards except by
              querying the environment. For example, by calling System.getenv("CLASSPATH").

       -bootclasspath path
              Specifies the path from which to load bootstrap classes. By default, the bootstrap classes are the
              classes that implement the core Java platform located in jre\lib\rt.jar and several other JAR files.

       -old
              Specifies that old JDK 1.0-style header files should be generated.

       -force
              Specifies that output files should always be written.

       -Joption
              Passes option to the Java Virtual Machine, where option is one of the options described on the
              reference page for the Java application launcher. For example, -J-Xms48m sets the startup memory to 48
              MB. See java(1).

SEE ALSO
       · javah(1)

       · java(1)

       · jdb(1)

       · javap(1)

       · javadoc(1)



JDK 8                                             21 November 2013                                          javah(1)
