javaws(1)                                       Java Web Start Tools                                       javaws(1)



NAME
       javaws - Starts Java Web Start.

SYNOPSIS
       javaws [ run-options ] jnlp

       javaws [ control-options ]


       run-options
              Command-line run-options. The run-options can be in any order. See Run-Options.

       jnlp   Either the path of or the Uniform Resource Locator (URL) of the Java Network Launching Protocol (JNLP)
              file.

       control-options
              Command-line control-options. The control-options can be in any order. See Control-Options.

DESCRIPTION
       Note: The javaws command is not available on Oracle Solaris.

       The javaws command starts Java Web Start, which is the reference implementation of the JNLP. Java Web Start
       starts Java applications and applets hosted on a network.

       If a JNLP file is specified, then the javaws command starts the Java application or applet specified in the
       JNLP file.

       The javaws launcher has a set of options that are supported in the current release. However, the options may
       be removed in a future release.

RUN-OPTIONS
       -offline
              Runs Java Web Start in offline mode.

       -Xnosplash
              Does not display the initial splash screen.

       -open arguments
              When specified, this option replaces the arguments in the JNLP file with -openarguments.

       -print arguments
              When specified, this option replaces the arguments in the JNLP file with -printarguments.

       -online
              Uses online mode. This is the default behavior.

       -wait
              The javaws process does not exit until the application exits. This option does not function as
              described on Windows platforms.

       -verbose
              Displays additional output.

       -Joption
              Passes option to the Java Virtual Machine, where option is one of the options described on the
              reference page for the Java application launcher. For example, -J-Xms48m sets the startup memory to 48
              MB. See java(1).

       -system
              Runs the application from the system cache only.

CONTROL-OPTIONS
       -viewer
              Shows the cache viewer in the Java Control Panel.

       -clearcache
              Removes all non-installed applications from the cache.

       -userConfig property-name
              Clears the specified deployment property.

       -userConfig property-name property-value
              Sets the specified deployment property to the specified value.

       -uninstall
              Removes all applications from the cache.

       -uninstall jnlp
              Removes the application from the cache.

       -print import-optionsjnlp
              Imports the application to the cache.

IMPORT-OPTIONS
       -silent
              Imports silently (with no user interface).

       -system
              Imports application to the system cache.

       -codebase url
              Retrieves resources from the specified codebase.

       -shortcut
              Installs shortcuts if the user allows a prompt. This option has no effect unless the -silent option is
              also used.

       -association
              Installs associations if the user allows a prompt. This option has no effect unless the -silent option
              is also used.

FILES
       For information about the user and system cache and deployment.properties files, see Deployment Configuration
       File and Properties at http://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/deployment/deployment-
       guide/properties.html

SEE ALSO
       · Java Web Start at http://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/javaws/index.html



JDK 8                                             21 November 2013                                         javaws(1)
