jmap(1)                                         Troubleshooting Tools                                        jmap(1)



NAME
       jmap - Prints shared object memory maps or heap memory details for a process, core file, or remote debug
       server. This command is experimental and unsupported.

SYNOPSIS
       jmap [ options ] pid

       jmap [ options ] executable core

       jmap [ options ] [ pid ] server-id@ ] remote-hostname-or-IP


       options
              The command-line options. See Options.

       pid    The process ID for which the memory map is to be printed. The process must be a Java process. To get a
              list of Java processes running on a machine, use the jps(1) command.

       executable
              The Java executable from which the core dump was produced.

       core   The core file for which the memory map is to be printed.

       remote-hostname-or-IP
              The remote debug server hostname or IP address. See jsadebugd(1).

       server-id
              An optional unique ID to use when multiple debug servers are running on the same remote host.

DESCRIPTION
       The jmap command prints shared object memory maps or heap memory details of a specified process, core file,
       or remote debug server. If the specified process is running on a 64-bit Java Virtual Machine (JVM), then you
       might need to specify the -J-d64 option, for example: jmap-J-d64 -heap pid.

       Note: This utility is unsupported and might not be available in future releases of the JDK. On Windows
       Systems where the dbgeng.dll file is not present, Debugging Tools For Windows must be installed to make these
       tools work. The PATH environment variable should contain the location of the jvm.dll file that is used by the
       target process or the location from which the crash dump file was produced, for example: set
       PATH=%JDK_HOME%\jre\bin\client;%PATH%.

OPTIONS
       <no option>
              When no option is used, the jmap command prints shared object mappings. For each shared object loaded
              in the target JVM, the start address, size of the mapping, and the full path of the shared object file
              are printed. This behavior is similar to the Oracle Solaris pmap utility.

       -dump:[live,] format=b, file=filename
              Dumps the Java heap in hprof binary format to filename. The live suboption is optional, but when
              specified, only the active objects in the heap are dumped. To browse the heap dump, you can use the
              jhat(1) command to read the generated file.

       -finalizerinfo
              Prints information about objects that are awaiting finalization.

       -heap
              Prints a heap summary of the garbage collection used, the head configuration, and generation-wise heap
              usage. In addition, the number and size of interned Strings are printed.

       -histo[:live]
              Prints a histogram of the heap. For each Java class, the number of objects, memory size in bytes, and
              the fully qualified class names are printed. The JVM internal class names are printed with an asterisk
              (*) prefix. If the live suboption is specified, then only active objects are counted.

       -clstats
              Prints class loader wise statistics of Java heap. For each class loader, its name, how active it is,
              address, parent class loader, and the number and size of classes it has loaded are printed.

       -F
              Force. Use this option with the jmap -dump or jmap -histo option when the pid does not respond. The
              live suboption is not supported in this mode.

       -h
              Prints a help message.

       -help
              Prints a help message.

       -Jflag
              Passes flag to the Java Virtual Machine where the jmap command is running.

SEE ALSO
       · jhat(1)

       · jps(1)

       · jsadebugd(1)



JDK 8                                             21 November 2013                                           jmap(1)
