jmc(1)                                     Java Troubleshooting, Profilin                                     jmc(1)



NAME
       jmc - Java Mission Control is a Profiling, Monitoring, and Diagnostics Tools Suite.

SYNOPSIS
           jmc [ options ]



       Options, if used, should follow immediately after the command name. Options may be in any order. For more
       information about the options used with the jmc command, see Options.

DESCRIPTION
       Java Mission Control is a tool for production time profiling and diagnostics for the HotSpot JVM. The two
       main features of Java Mission Control are the Management Console and Java Flight Recorder, but several more
       features are offered as plug-ins, which can be downloaded from the tool. Java Mission Control is also
       available as a set of plug-ins for the Eclipse IDE.

OPTIONS
       The following options are available when you launch Java Mission Control.

       -help
           Prints jmc command help.

       -version
           Prints the version of Java Mission Control and exit.

       -showversion
           Prints the version of Java Mission Control and continue.

       -debug
           Enables debug output.

       -consoleLog
           Prints the Eclipse log on the console. (Flag from Eclipse).

       -data workspace
           Sets the workspace used while running Java Mission Control. The default workspace is $HOME/.jmc. (Flag
           from Eclipse).

       -open file
           Opens the file in Java Mission Control. For example, to open a Flight Recording file (.jfr file).

       eclipse-option
           Passes this eclipse option to the underlying Eclipse platform. Eg.  -nosplash

       -vmargs jvm-arguments
           Overrides the JVM arguments specified in the jmc.ini file located in JAVA_HOME/bin.

       --launcher.appendVmargs
           Appends JVM arguments from the -vmargs flag to those in the jmc.ini file.

SEE ALSO
       ·   Oracle Java SE Advanced and Oracle Java SE Suite at
           http://www.oracle.com/us/technologies/java/standard-edition/advanced-suite/overview/index.html

       ·   Java Mission Control User’s Guide at http://docs.oracle.com/javacomponents/jmc.htm



JDK 8                                               03 March 2015                                             jmc(1)
