JPEGTOPNM(1)                                   General Commands Manual                                  JPEGTOPNM(1)



NAME
       jpegtopnm - convert JPEG/JFIF file to portable pixmap or graymap

SYNOPSIS
       jpegtopnm  [-dct  {int|fast|float}]  [-nosmooth]  [-maxmemory N] [{-adobe|-notadobe}] [-comments] [-dumpexif]
       [-exif=filespec] [-verbose] [-tracelevel N] [ filename ]

       All options may be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.


DESCRIPTION
       jpegtopnm converts the named JFIF file, or the standard input if no file is named to a PPM or PGM image  file
       on  the  standard  output.  If the JFIF file is of the grayscale variety, jpegtopnm generates a PGM (Portable
       Graymap) file.  Otherwise, it generates a PPM (Portable Pixmap) file.

       jpegtopnm uses the Independent JPEG Group's JPEG library to interpret the input file.  See http://www.ijg.org
       for information on the library.

       "JFIF"  is  the  correct  name  for  the image format commonly known as "JPEG."  Strictly speaking, JPEG is a
       method of compression.  The image format using JPEG compression that is by  far  the  most  common  is  JFIF.
       There is also a subformat of TIFF that uses JPEG compression.

       EXIF  is  an image format that is a subformat of JFIF (to wit, a JFIF file that contains an EXIF header as an
       APP1 marker).  jpegtopnm handles EXIF.

       JFIF files can have either 8 bits per sample or 12 bits per sample.  The 8 bit variety is  by  far  the  most
       common.  There are two versions of the IJG JPEG library.  One reads only 8 bit files and the other reads only
       12 bit files.  You must link the appropriate one of these libraries with jpegtopnm.  Ordinarily,  this  means
       the library is in your shared library search path when you run jpegtopnm.

       jpegtopnm  generates  output with either one byte or two bytes per sample depending on whether the JFIF input
       has either 8 bits or 12 bits per sample.  You can use pnmdepth to reduce a two-byte-per-sample file to a one-
       byte-per-sample file if you need to.

       If the JFIF file uses the CMYK or YCCK color space, the input does not actually contain enough information to
       know what color each pixel is.  To know what color a pixel is, one would have to know the properties  of  the
       inks  to which the color space refers.  jpegtopnm interprets the colors using the common transformation which
       assumes all the inks are simply subtractive and linear.



OPTIONS
       The options are only for advanced users:

       -dct int
              Use integer DCT method (default).

       -dct fast
              Use fast integer DCT (less accurate).

       -dct float
              Use floating-point DCT method.  The float method is very slightly more accurate than the  int  method,
              but  is much slower unless your machine has very fast floating-point hardware.  Also note that results
              of the floating-point method may vary slightly across machines, while the integer methods should  give
              the same results everywhere.  The fast integer method is much less accurate than the other two.

       -nosmooth
              Use a faster, lower-quality upsampling routine.

       -maxmemory N
              Set limit on the amount of memory jpegtopnm uses in processing large images.  Value is in thousands of
              bytes, or millions of bytes if "M" is suffixed to the number.   For  example,  -maxmemory  4m  selects
              4000000 bytes.  If jpegtopnm needs more space, it uses temporary files.

       -adobe

       -notadobe
              There  are  two  variations  on  the CMYK (and likewise YCCK) color space that may be used in the JFIF
              input.  In the normal one, a zero value for a color components  indicates  absence  of  ink.   In  the
              other,  a  zero  value  means the maximum ink coverage.  The latter is used by Adobe Photoshop when it
              creates a bare JFIF output file (but not when it creates JFIF output as  part  of  Encapsulated  Post‐
              script output).

              These  options  tell  jpegtopnm  which version of the CMYK or YCCK color space the image uses.  If you
              specify neither, jpegtopnm tries to figure it out on its own.  In the present version, it doesn't  try
              very  hard at all: It just assumes the Photoshop version, since Photoshop and its emulators seem to be
              the main source of CMYK and YCCK images.  But with experience of use, future versions  might  be  more
              sophisticated.

              If the JFIF image does not indicate that it is CMYK or YCCK, these options have no effect.

              If you don't use the right one of these options, the symptom is output that looks like a negative.


       -dumpexif
              Print the interpreted contents of any Exif header in the input file to the Standard Error file.  Simi‐
              lar to the program jhead (not part of the Netpbm package).

       -exif=filespec
              Extract the contents of the EXIF header from the input image and write it to the file filespec.  file‐
              spec  =  -  means  write it to Standard Output.  In this case, jpegtopnm does not output the converted
              image at all.

              jpegtopnm writes the contents of the EXIF header byte-for-byte, starting  with  the  two  byte  length
              field (which length includes those two bytes).

              You can use this file as input to ppmtojpeg to insert an identical EXIF header into a new JFIF image.

              If there is no EXIF header, jpegtopnm writes two bytes of binary zero and nothing else.

              An  EXIF  header  takes  the  form  of a JFIF APP1 marker.  Only the first such marker within the JFIF
              header counts.


       -comments
              Print any comments in the input file to the Standard Error file.

       -verbose
              Print details about the conversion to the Standard Error file.

       -tracelevel n
              Turn on the JPEG library's trace messages to the Standard Error file.  A higher value of n  gets  more
              trace information.  -verbose implies a trace level of at least 1.


EXAMPLES
       This example converts the color JFIF file foo.jpg to a PPM file named foo.ppm:

              jpegtopnm foo.jpg >foo.ppm


HINTS
       You can use ppmquant to color quantize the result, i.e. to reduce the number of distinct colors in the image.
       In fact, you may have to if you want to convert the PPM file to certain other formats.  ppmdither Does a more
       sophisticated quantization.

       Use pnmscale to change the dimensions of the resulting image.

       Use ppmtopgm to convert a color JFIF file to a grayscale PGM file.

       You can easily use these converters together.  E.g.:

              jpegtopnm foo.jpg | ppmtopgm | pnmscale .25
              >foo.pgm

       -dct fast and/or -nosmooth gain speed at a small sacrifice in quality.

       If  you  are  fortunate  enough to have very fast floating point hardware, -dct float may be even faster than
       -dct fast.  But on most machines -dct float is slower than -dct int; in this case  it  is  not  worth  using,
       because its theoretical accuracy advantage is too small to be significant in practice.

       Another  program, djpeg, is similar.  djpeg is maintained by the Independent JPEG Group and packaged with the
       JPEG library which jpegtopnm uses for all its JPEG work.  Because of that, you may expect it to exploit  more
       current  JPEG features.  Also, since you have to have the library to run jpegtopnm, but not vice versa, cjpeg
       may be more commonly available.

       On the other hand, djpeg does not use the NetPBM libraries to generate its output, as all  the  NetPBM  tools
       such  as  jpegtopnm  do.  This means it is less likely to be consistent with all the other programs that deal
       with the NetPBM formats.  Also, the command syntax of jpegtopnm is consistent with that of the  other  Netpbm
       tools, unlike djpeg.


ENVIRONMENT
       JPEGMEM
              If this environment variable is set, its value is the default memory limit.  The value is specified as
              described for the -maxmemory option.  An explicit -maxmemory option overrides any JPEGMEM.

SEE ALSO
       ppm(5), pgm(5), ppmtojpeg(1), ppmquant(1), pnmscale(1), ppmtopgm(1), ppmdither(1), pnmdepth(1),
       djpeg(1), cjpeg(1), jpegtran(1), rdjpgcom(1), wrjpgcom(1), jhead(1)
       Wallace, Gregory K.  "The JPEG Still Picture Compression Standard", Communications of  the  ACM,  April  1991
       (vol. 34, no. 4), pp. 30-44.


LIMITATIONS
       Arithmetic coding is not supported for legal reasons.

       The program could be much faster.


AUTHOR
       jpegtopnm  and  this man page were derived in large part from djpeg, by the Independent JPEG Group.  The pro‐
       gram is otherwise by Bryan Henderson on March 19, 2000.




                                                    19 March 2000                                       JPEGTOPNM(1)
