jrunscript(1)                                      Scripting Tools                                     jrunscript(1)



NAME
       jrunscript - Runs a command-line script shell that supports interactive and batch modes. This command is
       experimental and unsupported.

SYNOPSIS
       jrunscript [options] [arguments]


       options
              The command-line options. See Options.

       arguments
              Arguments, when used, follow immediately after options or the command name. See Arguments.

DESCRIPTION
       The jrunscript command is a language-independent command-line script shell. The jrunscript command supports
       both an interactive (read-eval-print) mode and a batch (-f option) mode of script execution. By default,
       JavaScript is the language used, but the -l option can be used to specify a different language. By using Java
       to scripting language communication, the jrunscript command supports an exploratory programming style.

OPTIONS
       -classpath path
              Indicate where any class files are that the script needs to access.

       -cp path
              Same as -classpathpath.

       -Dname=value
              Sets a Java system property.

       -Jflag
              Passes flag directly to the Java Virtual Machine where the jrunscript command is running.

       -I language
              Uses the specified scripting language. By default, JavaScript is used. To use other scripting
              languages, you must specify the corresponding script engine's JAR file with the -cp or -classpath
              option.

       -e script
              Evaluates the specified script. This option can be used to run one-line scripts that are specified
              completely on the command line.

       -encoding encoding
              Specifies the character encoding used to read script files.

       -f script-file
              Evaluates the specified script file (batch mode).

       -f -
              Reads and evaluates a script from standard input (interactive mode).

       -help
              Displays a help message and exits.

       -?
              Displays a help message and exits.

       -q
              Lists all script engines available and exits.

ARGUMENTS
       If arguments are present and if no -e or -f option is used, then the first argument is the script file and
       the rest of the arguments, if any, are passed to the script. If arguments and -e or the -f option are used,
       then all arguments are passed to the script. If arguments, -e and -f are missing, then interactive mode is
       used. Script arguments are available to a script in an engine variable named arguments of type String array.

EXAMPLES
   EXECUTE INLINE SCRIPTS
       jrunscript -e "print('hello world')"
       jrunscript -e "cat('http://www.example.com')"


   USE SPECIFIED LANGUAGE AND EVALUATE THE SCRIPT FILE
       jrunscript -l js -f test.js


   INTERACTIVE MODE
       jrunscript
       js> print('Hello World\n');
       Hello World
       js> 34 + 55
       89.0
       js> t = new java.lang.Thread(function() { print('Hello World\n'); })
       Thread[Thread-0,5,main]
       js> t.start()
       js> Hello World
       js>


   RUN SCRIPT FILE WITH SCRIPT ARGUMENTS
       The test.js file is the script file. The arg1, arg2 and arg3 arguments are passed to the script. The script
       can access these arguments with an arguments array.

       jrunscript test.js arg1 arg2 arg3


SEE ALSO
       If JavaScript is used, then before it evaluates a user defined script, the jrunscript command initializes
       certain built-in functions and objects. These JavaScript built-ins are documented in JsDoc-Toolkit at
       http://code.google.com/p/jsdoc-toolkit/



JDK 8                                             21 November 2013                                     jrunscript(1)
