jvisualvm(1)              Java Troubleshooting, Profiling, Monitoring and Management Tools              jvisualvm(1)



NAME
       jvisualvm - Visually monitors, troubleshoots, and profiles Java applications.

SYNOPSIS
       jvisualvm [ options ]


       options
              The command-line options. See Options.

DESCRIPTION
       Java VisualVM is an intuitive graphical user interface that provides detailed information about Java
       technology-based applications (Java applications) while they are running on a specified Java Virtual Machine
       (JVM). The name Java VisualVM comes from the fact that Java VisualVM provides information about the JVM
       software visually.

       Java VisualVM combines several monitoring, troubleshooting, and profiling utilities into a single tool. For
       example, most of the functionality offered by the standalone tools jmap, jinfo, jstat, and jstack were
       integrated into Java VisualVM. Other functionality, such as some that offered by the jconsole command, can be
       added as optional plug-ins.

       Java VisualVM is useful to Java application developers to troubleshoot applications and to monitor and
       improve the applications' performance. Java VisualVM enables developers to generate and analyze heap dumps,
       track down memory leaks, perform and monitor garbage collection, and perform lightweight memory and CPU
       profiling. You can expand the Java VisualVM functionality with plug-ins. For example, most of the
       functionality of the jconsole command is available through the MBeans Tab and JConsole Plug-in Wrapper plug-
       ins. You can choose from a catalog of standard Java VisualVM plug-ins by selecting Tools and then Plugins in
       the Java VisualVM menus.

       Start Java VisualVM with the following command:

       %  jvisualvm <options>


OPTIONS
       The following option is available when you launch Java VisualVM

       -Jjvm_option
              Pass this jvm_option to the JVM software

SEE ALSO
       · Java VisualVM developer’s site http://visualvm.java.net/

       · Java VisualVM in Java SE documentation
         http://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/visualvm/index.html



JDK 8                                             21 November 2013                                      jvisualvm(1)
