KILLALL(1)                                          User Commands                                         KILLALL(1)



NAME
       killall - kill processes by name

SYNOPSIS
       killall [-Z, --context pattern] [-e, --exact] [-g, --process-group] [-i, --interactive] [-o, --older-than
       TIME] [-q, --quiet] [-r, --regexp] [-s, --signal signal] [-u, --user user] [-v, --verbose] [-w, --wait]
       [-y, --younger-than TIME] [-I, --ignore-case] [-V, --version] [--] name ...
       killall -l
       killall -V, --version

DESCRIPTION
       killall  sends  a signal to all processes running any of the specified commands.  If no signal name is speci‐
       fied, SIGTERM is sent.

       Signals can be specified either by name (e.g.  -HUP or -SIGHUP) or by number (e.g.  -1) or by option -s.

       If the command name is not regular expression (option -r) and contains a slash (/), processes executing  that
       particular file will be selected for killing, independent of their name.

       killall  returns  a  zero  return code if at least one process has been killed for each listed command, or no
       commands were listed and at least one process matched the -u and -Z search criteria.   killall  returns  non-
       zero otherwise.

       A killall process never kills itself (but may kill other killall processes).

OPTIONS
       -e, --exact
              Require  an exact match for very long names.  If a command name is longer than 15 characters, the full
              name may be unavailable (i.e.  it is swapped out).  In this case, killall will  kill  everything  that
              matches  within the first 15 characters.  With -e, such entries are skipped.  killall prints a message
              for each skipped entry if -v is specified in addition to -e,

       -I, --ignore-case
              Do case insensitive process name match.

       -g, --process-group
              Kill the process group to which the process belongs.  The kill signal is only  sent  once  per  group,
              even if multiple processes belonging to the same process group were found.

       -i, --interactive
              Interactively ask for confirmation before killing.

       -l, --list
              List all known signal names.

       -o, --older-than
              Match  only  processes that are older (started before) the time specified.  The time is specified as a
              float then a unit.  The units are s,m,h,d,w,M,y for seconds, minutes, hours, days, weeks,  Months  and
              years respectively.

       -q, --quiet
              Do not complain if no processes were killed.

       -r, --regexp
              Interpret process name pattern as an extended regular expression.

       -s, --signal
              Send this signal instead of SIGTERM.

       -u, --user
              Kill only processes the specified user owns.  Command names are optional.

       -v, --verbose
              Report if the signal was successfully sent.

       -V, --version
              Display version information.

       -w, --wait
              Wait  for  all killed processes to die.  killall checks once per second if any of the killed processes
              still exist and only returns if none are left.  Note that killall may wait forever if the  signal  was
              ignored, had no effect, or if the process stays in zombie state.

       -y, --younger-than
              Match  only processes that are younger (started after) the time specified.  The time is specified as a
              float then a unit.  The units are s,m,h,d,w,M,y for seconds, minutes, hours, days, weeks,  Months  and
              years respectively.

       -Z, --context
              (SELinux  Only)  Specify security context: kill only processes having security context that match with
              given expended regular expression pattern.  Must precede other arguments on the command line.  Command
              names are optional.

FILES
       /proc  location of the proc file system

KNOWN BUGS
       Killing by file only works for executables that are kept open during execution, i.e. impure executables can't
       be killed this way.

       Be warned that typing killall name may not have the desired effect on non-Linux systems, especially when done
       by a privileged user.

       killall  -w doesn't detect if a process disappears and is replaced by a new process with the same PID between
       scans.

       If processes change their name, killall may not be able to match them correctly.

       killall has a limit of names that can be specified on the command line.   This  figure  is  the  size  of  an
       unsigned long multiplied by 8.  For most 32 bit systems the limit is 32 and similarly for a 64 bit system the
       limit is usually 64.

SEE ALSO
       kill(1), fuser(1), pgrep(1), pidof(1), pkill(1), ps(1), kill(2).



psmisc                                                2012-7-28                                           KILLALL(1)
