KOI8RXTERM(1)                                      X Window System                                     KOI8RXTERM(1)



NAME
       koi8rxterm - X terminal emulator for KOI8-R environments

SYNOPSIS
       koi8rxterm [ xterm-options ]

DESCRIPTION
       koi8rxterm  is  a wrapper around the xterm(1) program that invokes the latter program with the “KOI8RXTerm” X
       resource class set.  All arguments to koi8rxterm are passed to xterm without processing; the -class  and  -k8
       options  should  not  be  specified because they are used by the wrapper.  See the xterm manual page for more
       information on xterm-options.

       The environment's locale settings (see “ENVIRONMENT” below) are used to discern the locale's  character  set.
       If no current locale can be determined, the locale “ru_RU.KOI8-R” (the Russian language as used in the terri‐
       tory of Russia, with the KOI8-R character set) is assumed.   The  locale(1)  utility  is  used  to  determine
       whether  the  system  supports  the  selected locale.  If it does not, koi8rxterm will exit with an error and
       report the output of locale.

       Note: koi8rxterm may produce unexpected results if the current locale is set to one in which the KOI8-R char‐
       acter  encoding  is  not supported, or if fonts using that encoding are not available.  In the Debian system,
       the “xfonts-cyrillic” package provides the fonts that koi8rxterm  uses  by  default.   To  change  the  fonts
       koi8rxterm uses, edit the /etc/X11/app-defaults/KOI8RXTerm file.

       A similar wrapper, uxterm(1), is available for Unicode UTF-8 environments.

ENVIRONMENT
       LC_ALL, LC_CTYPE, LANG
              The  values  of these variables are checked, in order, to determine the character set used by the cur‐
              rent locale.

AUTHOR
       koi8rxterm was written by Branden Robinson and is very heavily based on uxterm, by Thomas Dickey.  The assis‐
       tance of Jurij Smakov was invaluable in sanity-checking its operation.

SEE ALSO
       locale(1), locale(7), uxterm(1), xterm(1)



Patch #297                                           2013-09-10                                        KOI8RXTERM(1)
