LATEX(1)                                       General Commands Manual                                      LATEX(1)



NAME
       latex, elatex, lambda, pdflatex - structured text formatting and typesetting

SYNOPSIS
       latex [first-line]

DESCRIPTION
       This  manual  page  is not meant to be exhaustive.  The complete documentation for this version of TeX can be
       found in the info file or manual Web2C: A TeX implementation.

       The LaTeX language is described in the book LaTeX - A Document Preparation System.   LaTeX  is  a  TeX  macro
       package,  not  a  modification  to  the  TeX  source program, so all the capabilities described in tex(1) are
       present.

       The LaTeX macros encourage writers to think about the content of their documents, rather than the form.   The
       ideal,  very  difficult  to realize, is to have no formatting commands (like ``switch to italic'' or ``skip 2
       picas'') in the document at all; instead, everything is done by specific markup instructions:  ``emphasize'',
       ``start a section''.

       The  primary  source  of documentation for LaTeX is the LaTeX manual referenced below, and the local guide in
       the file local-guide.tex or local.tex or some such.

       elatex is the e-TeX extended mode version of LaTeX format.

       lambda is the Omega version of the LaTeX format.

       pdflatex is the pdfTeX version of the LaTeX format.

       On some systems latex209 and slitex are available for compatibility with  older  versions  of  LaTeX.   These
       should not be used for new texts.

SEE ALSO
       amslatex(1), amstex(1), pdflatex(1), pdftex(1), tex(1).

       Leslie Lamport, LaTeX - A Document Preparation System, Addison-Wesley, 1985, ISBN 020115790X.

       Frank  Mittelbach, Michel Goossens, Johannes Braams, David Carlisle, and Chris Rowley, LaTeX Companion, Addi‐
       son-Wesley, 2004, ISBN 0201362996 (2nd edition).

       LaTeX Graphics Companion, available as part of a boxed set: The LaTeX Companions, Revised Boxed Set : A  Com‐
       plete  Guide  and Reference for Preparing, Illustrating, and Publishing Technical Documents (2nd Edition), by
       Frank Mittelbach, Michel Goossens, Sebastian Rahtz, Helmut Kopka, Patrick W. Daly (Addison-Wesley, 2004, ISBN
       0321269446).



Web2C 2013                                           14 May 2010                                            LATEX(1)
