LDD(1)                                        Linux Programmer's Manual                                       LDD(1)



NAME
       ldd - print shared library dependencies

SYNOPSIS
       ldd [OPTION]... FILE...

DESCRIPTION
       ldd prints the shared libraries required by each program or shared library specified on the command line.

   Security
       In  the  usual  case, ldd invokes the standard dynamic linker (see ld.so(8)) with the LD_TRACE_LOADED_OBJECTS
       environment variable set to 1, which causes the linker to display the library dependencies.  Be  aware,  how‐
       ever,  that  in  some circumstances, some versions of ldd may attempt to obtain the dependency information by
       directly executing the program.  Thus, you should never employ ldd on an untrusted executable, since this may
       result in the execution of arbitrary code.  A safer alternative when dealing with untrusted executables is:

           $ objdump -p /path/to/program | grep NEEDED

OPTIONS
       --version
              Print the version number of ldd.

       -v --verbose
              Print all information, including, for example, symbol versioning information.

       -u --unused
              Print unused direct dependencies.  (Since glibc 2.3.4.)

       -d --data-relocs
              Perform relocations and report any missing objects (ELF only).

       -r --function-relocs
              Perform  relocations  for both data objects and functions, and report any missing objects or functions
              (ELF only).

       --help Usage information.

NOTES
       The standard version of ldd comes with glibc2.  Libc5 came with an older version, still present on some  sys‐
       tems.   The  long options are not supported by the libc5 version.  On the other hand, the glibc2 version does
       not support -V and only has the equivalent --version.

       The libc5 version of this program will use the name of a library given on the command line as-is when it con‐
       tains  a '/'; otherwise it searches for the library in the standard locations.  To run it on a shared library
       in the current directory, prefix the name with "./".

BUGS
       ldd does not work on a.out shared libraries.

       ldd does not work with some extremely old a.out programs which were built before ldd support was added to the
       compiler  releases.   If  you use ldd on one of these programs, the program will attempt to run with argc = 0
       and the results will be unpredictable.

SEE ALSO
       ld.so(8), ldconfig(8)

COLOPHON
       This page is part of release 3.54 of the Linux man-pages project.  A description of the project, and informa‐
       tion about reporting bugs, can be found at http://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.



                                                     2012-07-16                                               LDD(1)
