lintian(1)                                     Debian Package Checker                                     lintian(1)



NAME
       lintian - Static analysis tool for Debian packages

SYNOPSIS
       lintian [action] [options] [packages] ...

DESCRIPTION
       Lintian dissects Debian packages and reports bugs and policy violations.  It contains automated checks for
       many aspects of Debian policy as well as some checks for common errors.

       It uses an archive directory, called laboratory, in which it stores information about the packages it
       examines.  It can keep this information between multiple invocations in order to avoid repeating expensive
       data-collection operations.

       There are three ways to specify binary, udeb or source packages for Lintian to process: by file name (the
       .deb file for a binary package or the .dsc file for a source package), by naming a .changes file, or by using
       a lab query (see "LAB QUERY" below).

       If you specify a .changes file, Lintian will process all packages listed in that file.  This is convenient
       when checking a new package before uploading it.

       If you specify packages to be checked or use one of the options --all or --packages-from-file, the packages
       requested will be processed.  Otherwise, if debian/changelog exists, it is parsed to determine the name of
       the .changes file to look for in the parent directory (when using the actions --check or --unpack).  See
       "CHECKING LAST BUILD" for more information.

OPTIONS
       Actions of the lintian command: (Only one action can be specified per invocation)

       -c, --check
           Run all checks over the specified packages.  This is the default action.

       -C chk1,chk2,..., --check-part chk1,chk2,...
           Run only the specified checks.  You can either specify the name of the check script or the abbreviation.
           For details, see the "CHECKS" section below.

       -F, --ftp-master-rejects
           Run only the checks that issue tags that result in automatic rejects from the Debian upload queue.  The
           list of such tags is refreshed with each Lintian release, so may be slightly out of date if it has
           changed recently.

           This is implemented via a profile and thus this option cannot be used together with --profile.

       -r, --remove
           Removed the specified packages from the lintian lab.  This is only useful with static labs.

       -R, --remove-lab
           Remove the laboratory directory.  This is only useful with static labs.

       -S, --setup-lab
           Set up or update a static lintian laboratory.

       -T tag1,tag2,..., --tags tag1,tag2,...
           Run only the checks that issue the requested tags.  The tests for other tags within the check scripts
           will be run but the tags will not be issued.

           With this options all tags listed will be displayed regardless of the display settings.

       --tags-from-file filename
           Same functionality as --tags, but read the list of tags from a file.  Blank lines and lines beginning
           with # are ignored.  All other lines are taken to be tag names or comma-separated lists of tag names to
           (potentially) issue.

           With this options all tags listed will be displayed regardless of the display settings.

       -u, --unpack
           Unpacks the package will all collections.  See the "COLLECTION" section below.

           Note in this option will also run all collections.  See the "COLLECTION" section below.

       -X chk1,chk2,..., --dont-check-part chk1,chk2,...
           Run all but the the specified checks.  You can either specify the name of the check script or the
           abbreviation.  For details, see the "CHECKS" section below.

       General options:

       -d, --debug
           Display debugging messages. (Implies -v and overrules any -q).

           Can be used multiple times to increase the debug information.  If passed twice or more, Lintian will emit
           approximate run times for collections and checks (if Time::HiRes can be loaded).

           If passed 3 times (and if Devel::Size can be loaded), Lintian will display memory usage for (some of its)
           data structures.  With 4 times, the memory usage will be more detailed.

           This option cannot be specified in the config file.  If used on the command line it will override the
           verbose and the quiet options in the config file.

       -h, --help
           Display usage information and exit.

       -q, --quiet
           Suppress all informational messages including override comments (normally shown with --show-overrides).

           This option is silently ignored if --debug is given.  Otherwise, if both --verbose and --quiet is used,
           the last of these two options take effect.

           This option overrides the verbose and the quiet variable in the configuration file.  In the configuration
           file, this option is enabled by using quiet variable.  The verbose and quiet variables may not both
           appear in the config file.

       -v, --verbose
           Display verbose messages.

           If --debug is used this option is always enabled.  Otherwise, if both --verbose and --quiet is used (and
           --debug is not used), the last of these two options take effect.

           This option overrides the quiet variable in the configuration file.  In the configuration file, this
           option is enabled by using verbose variable.  The verbose and quiet variables may not both appear in the
           config file.

       -V, --version
           Display lintian version number and exit.

       --print-version
           Print unadorned version number and exit.

       Behaviour options for lintian.

       --allow-root
           Override lintian's warning when it is run with superuser privileges.

       --color (never|always|auto|html)
           Whether to colorize tags in lintian output based on their severity.  The default is "never", which never
           uses color.  "always" will always use color, "auto" will use color only if the output is going to a
           terminal, and "html" will use HTML <span> tags with a color style attribute (instead of ANSI color escape
           sequences).

           This option overrides the color variable in the configuration file.

       --default-display-level
           Reset the current display level to the default.  This option behaves exactly like passing -L
           ">=important" -L "+>=normal/possible" -L "+minor/certain" to lintian.

           One use for this option is to override only the display settings in the config file.

       --display-source X
           Only display tags from the source X (e.g. the Policy Manual or the Developer Reference).  This option can
           be used multiple times to add additional sources.  Example sources are "policy" or "devref" being the
           Policy Manual and the Developer Reference (respectively).

           The entire list of sources can be found in $LINTIAN_ROOT/data/output/manual-references

       -E, --display-experimental, --no-display-experimental
           Control whether to display experimental ("X:") tags.  They are normally suppressed.

           If a tag is marked experimental, this means that the code that generates this message is not as well
           tested as the rest of Lintian, and might still give surprising results.  Feel free to ignore Experimental
           messages that do not seem to make sense, though of course bug reports are always welcome (particularly if
           they include fixes).

           These options overrides the display-experimental variable in the configuration file.

       --fail-on-warnings
           By default, lintian exits with 0 status if only warnings were found.  If this flag is given, exit with a
           status of 1 if either warnings or errors are found.

           This option overrides the fail-on-warnings variable in the configuration file.

       -i, --info
           Print explanatory information about each problem discovered in addition to the lintian error tags. To
           print a long tag description without running lintian, see lintian-info(1).

           This option overrides info variable in the configuration file.

       -I, --display-info
           Display informational ("I:") tags as well.  They are normally suppressed.  (This is equivalent to -L
           ">=wishlist").

           This option overrides the display-info variable in the configuration file.

           Note: display-level and display-info may not both appear in the configuration file.

       --keep-lab
           By default, temporary labs will be removed after lintian is finished.  Specifying this options will leave
           the lab behind, which might be useful for debugging purposes.  You can find out where the temporary lab
           is located by running lintian with the --verbose option.

           For static (non-temporary) labs this option causes Lintian to skip the automatic clean up of some
           collections.

       -L [+|-|=][>=|>|<|<=][S|C|S/C], --display-level [+|-|=][>=|>|<|<=][S|C|S/C]
           Fine-grained selection of tags to be displayed. It is possible to add, remove or set the levels to
           display, specifying a severity (S: serious, important, normal, minor, wishlist, pedantic), a certainty
           (C: certain, possible, wild-guess), or both (S/C).  The default settings are equivalent to -L
           ">=important" -L "+>=normal/possible" -L "+minor/certain").

           This option overrides the display-level variable in the configuration file.  The value of the display-
           level in configuration file should be space separated entries in the same format as passed via command-
           line.

           Note: display-level may not be used with display-info or pedantic in the configuration file.

       -o, --no-override
           Don't use the overrides file.

           This option overrides the override variable in the configuration file.

       --pedantic
           Display pedantic ("P:") tags as well.  They are normally suppressed.  (This is equivalent to -L
           "+=pedantic").

           Pedantic tags are Lintian at its most pickiest and include checks for particular Debian packaging styles
           and checks that many people disagree with.  Expect false positives and Lintian tags that you don't
           consider useful if you use this option.  Adding overrides for pedantic tags is probably not worth the
           effort.

           This option overrides the pedantic variable in the configuration file.

           Note: pedantic and display-info may not both appear in the configuration file.

       --profile vendor[/prof]
           Use the profile from vendor (or the profile with that name).  If the profile name does not contain a
           slash, the default profile for than vendor is chosen.

           As an example, if you are on Ubuntu and want to use Lintian's Debian checks, you can use:

             --profile debian

           Likewise, on a Debian machine you can use this to request the Ubuntu checks.

           If the token {VENDOR} appears in the profile name, lintian will substitute the token with a vendor name
           to find the profile.  lintian uses Dpkg::Vendor to determine the best vendor to use (the closer to the
           current vendor, the better).  This is mostly useful for people implementing their own checks on top of
           Lintian.

           If not specified, the default value is {VENDOR}/main.

           Please Refer to the Lintian User Manual for the full documentation of profiles.

       --show-overrides
           Output tags that have been overridden.  The related override comments will also be printed (unless
           --quiet is used).  Please refer to the Lintian User Manual for the documentation on how lintian relates
           comments to a given override.

           This option overrides the show-overrides variable in the configuration file.

       --suppress-tags tag1,tag2,...
           Suppress the listed tags.  They will not be reported if they occur and will not affect the exit status of
           Lintian.  This option can be given multiple times and can be mixed with --suppress-tags-from-file.

           This option can be used together with --dont-check-part ("Not those checks nor these tags") and
           --check-part ("Only those checks, but not these tags (from those checks)") to further reduce the
           selection of tags.

           When used with --tags, this option is mostly ignored.

       --suppress-tags-from-file file
           Suppress all tags listed in the given file.  Blank lines and lines beginning with # are ignored.  All
           other lines are taken to be tag names or comma-separated lists of tag names to suppress.  The suppressed
           tags will not be reported if they occur and will not affect the exit status of Lintian.

           Tags parsed from the file will be handled as if they had been given to the --suppress-tags option (e.g.
           ignored if --tags is used).

       -U info1,info2,..., --unpack-info info1,info2,...
           Collect information info1, info2, etc. even if these are not required by the checks.  Collections
           requested by this option are also not auto-removed (in this run).

           This option is mostly useful for debugging or special purpose setups.

           It is allowed to give this option more than once.  The following two lines of arguments are semantically
           equivalent:

            -U info1 -U info2
            -U info1,info2

       Configuration options:

       --cfg configfile
           Read the configuration from configfile rather than the default locations.  This option overrides the
           LINTIAN_CFG environment variable.

       --no-cfg
           Do not read any configuration file.  This option overrides the --cfg above.

       --ignore-lintian-env
           Ignore all environment variables starting with LINTIAN_.

           This option is mostly useful for applications running lintian for checking packages and do not want the
           invoking user to affect the result (by setting LINTIAN_PROFILE etc.).

           Note it does not cause lintian to ignore the entire environment like TMPDIR or DEB_VENDOR.  The latter
           can affect the default profile (or "{VENDOR}" token for --profile).

           Should usually be combined with --no-user-dirs (or unsetting $HOME and all XDG_ variables).

       --include-dir dir
           Use dir as an additional "LINTIAN_ROOT".  The directory is expected have a similar layout to the
           LINTIAN_ROOT (if it exists), but does not need to be a full self-contained root.

           lintian will check this directory for (additional) profiles, data files, support libraries and checks.
           The latter two implies that Lintian may attempt to load and execute code from this directory.

           This option may appear more than once; each time adding an additional directory.  Directories are
           searched in the order they appear on the command line.

           The additional directories will be checked after the user directories (though see --no-user-dirs) and
           before the core LINTIAN_ROOT.

           Note: This option should be the very first if given.

       -j [X], --jobs[=X]
           Set the limit for how many unpacking jobs Lintian will run in parallel.  If X is not given, Lintian will
           not limit the number of unpacking jobs run that can run in parallel.

           This option overrides the jobs variable in the configuration file.

           By default Lintian will use nproc to determine a reasonable default (or 2, if the nproc fails).

       --lab labdir
           Use labdir as the permanent laboratory.  This is where Lintian keeps information about the packages it
           checks.  This option overrides the LINTIAN_LAB environment variable and the configuration file entry of
           the same name.

       --root rootdir
           Deprecated in 2.5.18 and will be removed in a later release.

           This option used to control what directory was used as the LINTIAN_ROOT.  It's primary purpose was to use
           Lintian directly from a source tree.  However, since 2.5.18 Lintian has logic for automatically
           configuring itself without any assistance making this option largely obsolete.  Note if passed, then the
           chosen root dir must match the actual LINTIAN_ROOT used by Lintian.

           This option implies --no-user-dirs for backwards compatbility with previous versions of Lintian.

       --user-dirs, --no-user-dirs
           By default, lintian will check $HOME and /etc for files supplied by the user or the local sysadmin (e.g.
           config files and profiles).  This default can be disabled (and re-enabled) by using --no-user-dirs (and
           --user-dirs, respectively).

           These options will not affect the inclusion of LINTIAN_ROOT, which is always included.

           These option can appear multiple times, in which case the last of them to appear determines the result.

           Note that if the intention is only to disable the user's $HOME, then unsetting $HOME and XDG_*_HOME may
           suffice.  Alternatively, /etc can be "re-added" by using --include-dir (caveat: /etc/lintianrc will be
           ignored by this).

           If the intention is to avoid (unintentional) side-effects from the calling user, then this option could
           be combined with --ignore-lintian-env.

           If for some reason --no-user-dirs cannot be used, then consider unsetting $HOME and all the $XDG_*
           variables (not just the $XDG_*_HOME ones).

           Note: This option should be the very first if given.

       Package selection options:

       -a, --all
           Check all packages in the laboratory.

           Note: If --binary, --udeb or --source is specified, then only packages of that type is considered.

       -b, --binary
           The lab-queries listed on the command line are by default binary packages.

           With --all this means check all binary packages in the lab.

       --packages-from-file X
           Process the packages listed in X.  If the line starts with "!query:", then the rest of that line is
           processed as a lab query (see "LAB QUERY").

           Otherwise the line is read as the path to a file to process (all whitespace is included!).

           If X is "-", Lintian will read the packages from STDIN.

       -s, --source
           The lab-queries listed on the command line are by default source packages.

           With --all this means check all source packages in the lab.

           The following packages listed on the command line are source packages.

       --udeb
           The lab-queries listed on the command line are by default udeb packages.

           With --all this means check all udeb packages in the lab.

CHECKS
       apache2 (apache2)
           Checks various build mistakes in Apache2 reverse dependencies

       automake (autom)
           Checks for erroneous, missing or deprecated automake files

       binaries (bin)
           This script checks binaries and object files for bugs.

       changelog-file (chg)
           This script checks if a binary package conforms to policy with regards to changelog files.

           Each binary package with a /usr/share/doc/<foo> directory must have a Debian changelog file in
           changelog.Debian.gz unless the Debian changelog and the upstream one is the same file; in this case, it
           must be in changelog.gz.

           If there is an upstream changelog file, it must be named "changelog.gz".

           Both changelog files should be compressed using "gzip -9".  Even if they start out small, they will
           become large with time.

       changes-file (chng)
           This script checks for various problems with .changes files

       conffiles (cnf)
           This script checks if the conffiles control file of a binary package is correct.

       control-file (dctl)
           This script checks debian/control files in source packages

       control-files (ctl)
           Check for unknown control files in the binary package.

       copyright-file (cpy)
           This script checks if a binary package conforms to policy with regard to copyright files.

           Each binary package must either have a /usr/share/doc/<foo>/copyright file or must have a symlink
           /usr/share/doc/<foo> -> <bar>, where <bar> comes from the same source package and pkg foo declares a
           "Depends" relation on bar.

       cruft (deb)
           This looks for cruft in Debian packaging or upstream source

       deb-format (dfmt)
           This script checks the format of the deb ar archive itself.

       debconf (dc)
           This looks for common mistakes in packages using debconf.

       debhelper (dh)
           This looks for common mistakes in debhelper source packages.

       debian-readme (drm)
           This script checks the README.Debian file for various problems.

       debian-source-dir (dsd)
           This script looks for mistakes in debian/source/* files.

       description (des)
           Check if the Description control field of a binary package conforms to the rules in the Policy Manual
           (section 3.4).

       duplicate-files (dupf)
           This script checks for duplicate files using checksums

       fields (fld)
           This script checks the syntax of the fields in package control files, as described in the Policy Manual.

       filename-length (flen)
           This script checks for long package file names

       files (fil)
           This script checks if a binary package conforms to policy WRT to files and directories.

       group-checks (gchck)
           This script checks for some issues that may appear in packages built from the same source.  This includes
           intra-source circular dependencies and intra-source priority checks.

       huge-usr-share (hus)
           This script checks whether an architecture-dependent package has large amounts of data in /usr/share.

       infofiles (info)
           This script checks if a binary package conforms to info document policy.

       init.d (ini)
           Check if a binary package conforms to policy with respect to scripts in /etc/init.d.

       java (java)
           This script checks if the packages comply with various aspects of the debian Java policy.

       manpages (man)
           This script checks if a binary package conforms to manual page policy.

       md5sums (md5)
           This script checks if md5sum control files are valid, if they are provided by a binary package.

       menu-format (mnf)
           This script validates the format of menu files.

       menus (men)
           Check if a binary package conforms to policy with respect to menu and doc-base files.

       nmu (nmu)
           This script checks if a source package is consistent about its NMU-ness.

       ocaml (ocaml)
           This looks for common mistakes in OCaml binary packages.

       patch-systems (pat)
           This script checks for various possible problems when using patch systems

       phppear (phppear)
           This script checks if the packages comply with various aspects of the debian PHP policy.

       po-debconf (pd)
           This looks for common mistakes in packages using po-debconf(7).

       rules (rul)
           Check targets and actions in debian/rules.

       scripts (scr)
           This script checks the #! lines of scripts in a package.

       shared-libs (shl)
           This script checks if a binary package conforms to shared library policy.

       source-copyright (scpy)
           This script checks if a source package conforms to policy with regard to copyright files.

           Each source package should have a debian/copyright file.

       standards-version (std)
           This script checks if a source package contains a valid Standards-Version field.

       symlinks (sym)
           This script checks for broken symlinks.

       systemd
           Checks various systemd policy things

       testsuite
           This script checks the Testsuite field in package dsc files, and debian/tests/control if any.

       version-substvars (v-s)
           This script checks for correct use of the various *Version substvars, e.g. deprecated substvars, or usage
           that can cause un-binNMUability

       watch-file (watch)
           Check debian/watch files in source packages.

COLLECTION
       ar-info
           This script runs the "ar t" command over all .a files of package.

           This collection is auto-removed by default in static labs.

       bin-pkg-control
           This script extracts the contents of control.tar into the control/ and creates control-index as well.

       changelog-file
           This script copies the changelog file and NEWS.Debian file (if any) of a package into the lintian
           directory.

       copyright-file
           This script copies the copyright file of a package into the lintian directory.

       debfiles
           This script collects files shipped in the source of the package.

           This collection is auto-removed by default in static labs.

       debian-readme
           This script copies the README.Debian file of a package into the lintian directory.

           This collection is auto-removed by default in static labs.

       diffstat
           This script extracts the Debian diff of a source package, and runs diffstat on it, leaving the result in
           the diffstat output file

       doc-base-files
           This script copies the contents of /usr/share/doc-base into the lintian doc-base/ directory.

       file-info
           This script runs the file(1) command over all files of any kind of package.

       hardening-info
           This script runs hardening-check(1) over all ELF binaries of a binary package.

       index
           This script create an index file of the contents of a package.

       init.d
           This script copies the etc/init.d directory into the lintian directory.

       java-info
           This script extracts information from manifests of JAR files

       md5sums
           This script runs the md5sums(1) over all files in a binary package.

       menu-files
           This script copies the contents of /usr/lib/menu into the lintian menu/ directory.

           This collection is auto-removed by default in static labs.

       objdump-info
           This script runs objdump(1) over all binaries and object files of a binary package.

       override-file
           This script copies the override file of a package into the lintian directory.

       scripts
           This script scans a binary package for scripts that start with #! and lists their filenames together with
           the interpreter named by their first line.

            The format is: scriptpath filename

           Note that the filename might contain spaces, but the scriptpath will not, because linux only looks at the
           first word when executing a script.

       src-orig-index
           This script create an index file of the contents of the orig tarballs.

       strings
           This script runs the strings(1) command over all files of a binary package.

           This collection is auto-removed by default in static labs.

       unpacked
           This script unpacks the package under the unpacked/ directory

           This collection is auto-removed by default in static labs.

FILES
       Lintian looks for its configuration file in the following locations:

       ·   The argument given to --cfg

       ·   $LINTIAN_CFG

       ·   $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/lintian/lintianrc

       ·   $HOME/.lintianrc

           Deprecated in Lintian/2.5.12 and newer (use the XDG based variant above)

       ·   XGD_DIR/lintian/lintianrc

           Where XGD_DIR is a directories listed in $XDG_CONFIG_DIRS (or /etc/xdg if $XDG_CONFIG_DIRS is unset).

       ·   /etc/lintianrc

           Deprecated in Lintian/2.5.12 and newer (use the XDG based variant above)

       Lintian uses the following directories:

       /tmp
           If no lab location is specified via the LINTIAN_LAB environment variable, configuration, or the --lab
           command-line option, lintian defaults to creating a temporary lab directory in /tmp.  To change the
           directory used, set the TMPDIR environment variable to a suitable directory.  TMPDIR can be set in the
           configuration file.

       /usr/share/lintian/checks
           Scripts that check aspects of a package.

       /usr/share/lintian/collection
           Scripts that collect information about a package and store it for use by the check scripts.

       /usr/share/lintian/data
           Supporting data used by Lintian checks and for output formatting.

       /usr/share/lintian/lib
           Utility scripts used by the other lintian scripts.

       For binary packages, Lintian looks for overrides in a file named usr/share/lintian/overrides/<package> inside
       the binary package, where <package> is the name of the binary package.  For source packages, Lintian looks
       for overrides in debian/source/lintian-overrides and then in debian/source.lintian-overrides if the first
       file is not found.  The first path is preferred.  See the Lintian User's Manual for the syntax of overrides.

CONFIGURATION FILE
       The configuration file can be used to specify default values for some options.  The general format is:

        option = value

       All whitespace adjacent to the "=" sign as well as leading and trailing whitespace is ignored.  However
       whitespace within the value is respected, as demonstrated by this example:

        # Parsed as "opt1" with value "val1"
           opt1    =   val1
        # Parsed as "opt2" with value "val2.1  val2.2     val2.3"
        opt2 = val2.1  val2.2     val2.3

       Unless otherwise specified, no option may appear more than once.  Lintian will ignore empty lines or lines
       starting with the #-character.

       Generally options will be the long form of the command-line option without the leading dashes.  There some
       exceptions (such as --profile), where Lintian uses the same name as the environment variable.

       Lintian only allows a subset of the options specified in the configuration file; please refer to the
       individual options in "OPTIONS".

       In the configuration file, all options listed must have a value, even if they do not accept a value on
       command line (e.g. --pedantic).  The values "yes", "y", "1", or "true" will enable such a option and "no",
       "n", "0" or "false" will disable it.  Prior to the 2.5.2 release, these values were case sensitive.

       For other options, they generally take the same values as they do on the command line.  Though some options
       allow a slightly different format (e.g. --display-level).  These exceptions are explained for the relevant
       options in "OPTIONS".

       Beyond command line options, it is also allowed to specify the environment variable "TMPDIR" in the
       configuration file.

       A sample configuration file could look like:

        # Sample configuration file for lintian
        #
        # Set the default profile (--profile)
        LINTIAN_PROFILE = debian

        # Set the default TMPDIR for lintian to /var/tmp/lintian
        # - useful if /tmp is tmpfs with "limited" size.
        TMPDIR = /var/tmp/lintian/

        # Show info (I:) tags by default (--display-info)
        #  NB: this cannot be used with display-level
        display-info=yes

        # Ignore all overrides (--no-override)
        #  NB: called "override" in the config file
        #      and has inverted value!
        override = no

        # Automatically determine if color should be used
        color = auto

EXIT STATUS
       0   No policy violations or major errors detected.  (There may have been warnings, though.)

       1   Policy violations or major errors detected.

       2   Lintian run-time error. An error message is sent to stderr.

LAB QUERY
       A lab query can be used to refer to a (set of) package(s) in the Lintian Laboratory.  The general format of a
       query is:

        [type:]package[/version[/arch]]

       Where:

       type
           This is the type of the package and (if present) must be one of "ALL", "GROUP", "binary", "udeb",
           "source" or "changes".  This is case sensitive.

           If omitted this defaults to "ALL" unless another default has been specified (see --binary, --udeb or
           --source).  The pseudo type "ALL" acts as a wildcard for any real package type.

           The special type "GROUP" can be used to match all packages related to a given source package.  For more
           info, please see "Group query" below.

       package
           This is the name of the package.  This is mandatory and must match exactly.

       version
           This is the version of the package, if left out (or if it is "_") then any version will do.  Otherwise
           the version must match exactly.

       arch
           This is the architecture of the package, if left out (or it is "_") then any architecture will do.
           Otherwise the architecture must match exactly.

           Note: This is completely ignored when matching against source packages or when type is "GROUP".

           Note: For changes packages, this must match the contents of the architecture field in the changes.  This
           field may contain a space (e.g. "source all") and therefore may also need proper shell escape.

   Group query
       A group query can be used to (re-)process all packages in a given group.  The package and version part will
       be used to look up one or more source packages.  The binaries, udebs and changes files for each matching
       source package will also be activated.

CHECKING LAST BUILD
       When run in an unpacked package dir (with no package selection arguments), Lintian will use debian/changelog
       to determine the source and version of the package.  Lintian will then attempt to find a matching .changes
       file for this source and version combination.

       Lintian will (in order) search the following directories:

       ..  Used by dpkg-buildpackage(1).

       ../build-area
           Used by svn-buildpackage(1).

       /var/cache/pbuilder/result
           Used by pbuilder(1) and cowbuilder(1).

       In each directory, Lintian will attempt to find a .changes file using the following values as architecture
       (in order):

       $DEB_BUILD_ARCH (or dpkg --print-architecture)
           The environment variable DEB_BUILD_ARCH (if not set, "dpkg --print-architecture" will be used instead)

       $DEB_HOST_ARCH
           The environment variable DEB_HOST_ARCH.

       dpkg --print-foreign-architectures
           If dpkg(1) appears to support multi-arch, then any architecture listed by "dpkg
           --print-foreign-architectures" will be used (in the order returned by dpkg).

       multi
           Pseudo architecture used by mergechanges(1).

       all Used when building architecture indep packages only (e.g dpkg-buildpackage -A).

       source
           Used for "source only" builds (e.g. dpkg-buildpackage -S).

       If a .changes file matches any combination above exists, Lintian will process the first match as if you had
       passed it per command line.  If no .changes file can be found, Lintian will print a list of attempted
       locations on STDERR and exit 0.

EXAMPLES
       $ lintian foo.changes
           Check the changes file itself and any (binary, udeb or source) package listed in it.

       $ lintian foo.deb
           Check binary package foo given by foo.deb.

       $ lintian foo.dsc
           Check source package foo given by foo.dsc.

       $ lintian foo.dsc -L +minor/possible
           Check source package foo given by foo.dsc, including minor/possible tags.

       $ lintian -i foo.changes
           Check the changes file and, if listed, the source and binary package of the upload. The output will
           contain detailed information about the reported tags.

       $ lintian -c --binary foo
           Check the binary package foo in the Lintian laboratory.

       $ lintian -C cpy --source foo
           Run the copyright checks on source package foo.  The package foo must be in the Lintian laboratory.

       $ lintian -u foo -U unpacked
           Unpack all packages named foo in the Lintian laboratory.

       $ lintian -r foo
           Remove all packages named foo from the Lintian laboratory.

       $ lintian
           Assuming debian/changelog exists, look for a changes file for the source in the parent dir.  Otherwise,
           print usage information and exit.

BUGS
       Lintian does not have any locking mechanisms yet.  (Running several Lintian processes on the same laboratory
       simultaneously is likely to fail or corrupt the laboratory.)

       If you discover any other bugs in lintian, please contact the authors.

SEE ALSO
       lintian-info(1), Lintian User Manual (file:/usr/share/doc/lintian/lintian.html/index.html)

       Packaging tools: debhelper(7), dh_make(8), dpkg-buildpackage(1).

AUTHORS
       Niels Thykier <niels@thykier.net>

       Richard Braakman <dark@xs4all.nl>

       Christian Schwarz <schwarz@monet.m.isar.de>

       Please use the email address <lintian-maint@debian.org> for Lintian related comments.



perl v5.18.2                                         2014-03-29                                           lintian(1)
