locate(1)                                      General Commands Manual                                     locate(1)



NAME
       locate - find files by name


SYNOPSIS
       locate [OPTION]... PATTERN...


DESCRIPTION
       locate reads one or more databases prepared by updatedb(8) and writes file names matching at least one of the
       PATTERNs to standard output, one per line.

       If --regex is not specified, PATTERNs can contain globbing characters.  If any PATTERN contains  no  globbing
       characters, locate behaves as if the pattern were *PATTERN*.

       By default, locate does not check whether files found in database still exist (but it does require all parent
       directories to exist if the database was built with --require-visibility no).  locate can never report  files
       created after the most recent update of the relevant database.


EXIT STATUS
       locate exits with status 0 if any match was found or if locate was invoked with one of the --limit 0, --help,
       --statistics or --version options.  If no match was found or a fatal error was encountered, locate exits with
       status 1.

       Errors  encountered while reading a database are not fatal, search continues in other specified databases, if
       any.


OPTIONS
       -A, --all
              Print only entries that match all PATTERNs instead of requiring only one of them to match.


       -b, --basename
              Match only the base name against the specified patterns.  This is the opposite of --wholename.


       -c, --count
              Instead of writing file names on standard output, write the number of matching entries only.


       -d, --database DBPATH
              Replace the default database with DBPATH.  DBPATH is a :-separated list of database  file  names.   If
              more  than  one  --database option is specified, the resulting path is a concatenation of the separate
              paths.

              An empty database file name is replaced by the default database.  A database file name - refers to the
              standard input.  Note that a database can be read from the standard input only once.


       -e, --existing
              Print only entries that refer to files existing at the time locate is run.


       -L, --follow
              When  checking  whether  files exist (if the --existing option is specified), follow trailing symbolic
              links.  This causes broken symbolic links to be omitted from the output.

              This is the default behavior.  The opposite can be specified using --nofollow.


       -h, --help
              Write a summary of the available options to standard output and exit successfully.


       -i, --ignore-case
              Ignore case distinctions when matching patterns.


       -l, --limit, -n LIMIT
              Exit successfully after finding LIMIT entries.  If the --count  option  is  specified,  the  resulting
              count is also limited to LIMIT.


       -m, --mmap
              Ignored, for compatibility with BSD and GNU locate.


       -P, --nofollow, -H
              When checking whether files exist (if the --existing option is specified), do not follow trailing sym‐
              bolic links.  This causes broken symbolic links to be reported like other files.

              This is the opposite of --follow.


       -0, --null
              Separate the entries on output using the ASCII NUL character instead of writing each entry on a  sepa‐
              rate line.  This option is designed for interoperability with the --null option of GNU xargs(1).


       -S, --statistics
              Write  statistics  about each read database to standard output instead of searching for files and exit
              successfully.


       -q, --quiet
              Write no messages about errors encountered while reading and processing databases.


       -r, --regexp REGEXP
              Search for a basic regexp REGEXP.  No PATTERNs are allowed if this option is used, but this option can
              be specified multiple times.


       --regex
              Interpret all PATTERNs as extended regexps.


       -s, --stdio
              Ignored, for compatibility with BSD and GNU locate.


       -V, --version
              Write information about the version and license of locate on standard output and exit successfully.


       -w, --wholename
              Match only the whole path name against the specified patterns.

              This is the default behavior.  The opposite can be specified using --basename.


EXAMPLES
       To search for a file named exactly NAME (not *NAME*), use
              locate -b '\NAME'
       Because \ is a globbing character, this disables the implicit replacement of NAME by *NAME*.


FILES
       /var/lib/mlocate/mlocate.db
              The database searched by default.


ENVIRONMENT
       LOCATE_PATH
              Path  to  additional  databases, added after the default database or the databases specified using the
              --database option.


NOTES
       The order in which the requested databases are processed is unspecified, which allows locate to  reorder  the
       database path for security reasons.

       locate attempts to be compatible to slocate (without the options used for creating databases) and GNU locate,
       in that order.  This is the reason for the impractical default --follow option and for the confusing  set  of
       --regex and --regexp options.

       The  short  spelling  of  the  -r  option  is incompatible to GNU locate, where it corresponds to the --regex
       option.  Use the long option names to avoid confusion.

       The LOCATE_PATH environment variable replaces the default database in BSD and GNU locate, but it is added  to
       other databases in this implementation and slocate.


AUTHOR
       Miloslav Trmac <mitr@redhat.com>


SEE ALSO
       updatedb(8)



mlocate                                               Sep 2012                                             locate(1)
