LOGGER(1)                                           User Commands                                          LOGGER(1)

NAME
     logger — a shell command interface to the syslog(3) system log module

SYNOPSIS
     logger [-dhisV] [-f file] [-n server] [-P port] [-p pri] [-t tag] [-u socket] [message]

DESCRIPTION
     logger makes entries in the system log.  It provides a shell command interface to the syslog(3) system log mod‐
     ule.

     Options:

     -d, --udp
              Use datagram (UDP) instead of the default stream connection (TCP).

     -i, --id
              Log the process ID of the logger process with each line.

     -f, --file file
              Log the contents of the specified file.  This option cannot be combined with a command-line message.

     -h, --help
              Display a help text and exit.

     -n, --server server
              Write to the specified remote syslog server using UDP instead of to the builtin syslog routines.

     -P, --port port
              Use the specified UDP port.  The default port number is 514.

     -p, --priority priority
              Enter the message into the log with the specified priority.  The priority may be specified numerically
              or as a facility.level pair.  For example, -p local3.info logs the message as informational in the
              local3 facility.  The default is user.notice.

     -s, --stderr
              Output the message to standard error as well as to the system log.

     -t, --tag tag
              Mark every line to be logged with the specified tag.

     -u, --socket socket
              Write to the specified socket instead of to the builtin syslog routines.

     -V, --version
              Display version information and exit.

     --       End the argument list. This is to allow the message to start with a hyphen (-).

     message  Write the message to log; if not specified, and the -f flag is not provided, standard input is logged.

     The logger utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

     Valid facility names are: auth, authpriv (for security information of a sensitive nature), cron, daemon, ftp,
     kern (can't be generated from user process), lpr, mail, news, security (deprecated synonym for auth), syslog,
     user, uucp, and local0 to local7, inclusive.

     Valid level names are: alert, crit, debug, emerg, err, error (deprecated synonym for err), info, notice, panic
     (deprecated synonym for emerg), warning, warn (deprecated synonym for warning).  For the priority order and
     intended purposes of these levels, see syslog(3).

EXAMPLES
           logger System rebooted

           logger -p local0.notice -t HOSTIDM -f /dev/idmc

           logger -n loghost.example.com System rebooted

SEE ALSO
     syslog(3), syslogd(8)

STANDARDS
     The logger command is expected to be IEEE Std 1003.2 (“POSIX.2”) compatible.

AVAILABILITY
     The logger command is part of the util-linux package and is available from ftp://ftp.ker‐
     nel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.

util-linux                                         August 2011                                            util-linux
