LOGINCTL(1)                                           loginctl                                           LOGINCTL(1)



NAME
       loginctl - Control the systemd login manager

SYNOPSIS
       loginctl [OPTIONS...] {COMMAND} [NAME...]

DESCRIPTION
       loginctl may be used to introspect and control the state of the systemd(1) login manager systemd-
       logind.service(8).

OPTIONS
       The following options are understood:

       -h, --help
           Prints a short help text and exits.

       --version
           Prints a short version string and exits.

       -p, --property=
           When showing session/user properties, limit display to certain properties as specified as argument. If
           not specified all set properties are shown. The argument should be a property name, such as Sessions. If
           specified more than once all properties with the specified names are shown.

       -a, --all
           When showing unit/job/manager properties, show all properties regardless whether they are set or not.

       --full
           Do not ellipsize cgroup members.

       --no-pager
           Do not pipe output into a pager.

       --no-ask-password
           Don't query the user for authentication for privileged operations.

       --kill-who=
           When used with kill-session, choose which processes to kill. Must be one of leader, or all to select
           whether to kill only the leader process of the session or all processes of the session. If omitted
           defaults to all.

       -s, --signal=
           When used with kill-session or kill-user, choose which signal to send to selected processes. Must be one
           of the well known signal specifiers such as SIGTERM, SIGINT or SIGSTOP. If omitted defaults to SIGTERM.

       -H, --host
           Execute operation remotely. Specify a hostname, or username and hostname separated by @, to connect to.
           This will use SSH to talk to the remote login manager instance.

       -P, --privileged
           Acquire privileges via PolicyKit before executing the operation.

       The following commands are understood:

       list-sessions
           List current sessions.

       session-status [ID...]
           Show terse runtime status information about one or more sessions. This function is intended to generate
           human-readable output. If you are looking for computer-parsable output, use show-session instead.

       show-session [ID...]
           Show properties of one or more sessions or the manager itself. If no argument is specified properties of
           the manager will be shown. If a session ID is specified properties of the session is shown. By default,
           empty properties are suppressed. Use --all to show those too. To select specific properties to show use
           --property=. This command is intended to be used whenever computer-parsable output is required. Use
           session-status if you are looking for formatted human-readable output.

       activate [ID...]
           Activate one or more sessions. This brings one or more sessions into the foreground, if another session
           is currently in the foreground on the respective seat.

       lock-session [ID...], unlock-session [ID...]
           Activates/deactivates the screen lock on one or more sessions, if the session supports it.

       lock-sessions, unlock-sessions
           Activates/deactivates the screen lock on all current sessions supporting it.

       terminate-session [ID...]
           Terminates a session. This kills all processes of the session and deallocates all resources attached to
           the session.

       kill-session [ID...]
           Send a signal to one or more processes of the session. Use --kill-who= to select which process to kill.
           Use --signal= to select the signal to send.

       list-users
           List currently logged in users.

       user-status [USER...]
           Show terse runtime status information about one or more logged in users. This function is intended to
           generate human-readable output. If you are looking for computer-parsable output, use show-user instead.
           Users may be specified by their usernames or numeric user IDs.

       show-user [USER...]
           Show properties of one or more users or the manager itself. If no argument is specified properties of the
           manager will be shown. If a user is specified properties of the user is shown. By default, empty
           properties are suppressed. Use --all to show those too. To select specific properties to show use
           --property=. This command is intended to be used whenever computer-parsable output is required. Use
           user-status if you are looking for formatted human-readable output.

       enable-linger [USER...], disable-linger [USER...]
           Enable/disable user lingering for one or more users. If enabled for a specific user a user manager is
           spawned for him/her at boot, and kept around after logouts. This allows users who aren't logged in to run
           long-running services.

       terminate-user [USER...]
           Terminates all sessions of a user. This kills all processes of all sessions of the user and deallocates
           all runtime resources attached to the user.

       kill-user [USER...]
           Send a signal to all processes of a user. Use --signal= to select the signal to send.

       list-seats
           List currently available seats on the local system.

       seat-status [NAME...]
           Show terse runtime status information about one or more seats. This function is intended to generate
           human-readable output. If you are looking for computer-parsable output, use show-seat instead.

       show-seat [NAME...]
           Show properties of one or more seats or the manager itself. If no argument is specified properties of the
           manager will be shown. If a seat is specified properties of the seat are shown. By default, empty
           properties are suppressed. Use --all to show those too. To select specific properties to show use
           --property=. This command is intended to be used whenever computer-parsable output is required. Use
           seat-status if you are looking for formatted human-readable output.

       attach [NAME] [DEVICE...]
           Persistently attach one or more devices to a seat. The devices should be specified via device paths in
           the /sys file system. To create a new seat attach at least one graphics card to a previously unused seat
           name. Seat names may consist only of a-z, A-Z, 0-9, "-" and "_" and must be prefixed with "seat". To drop
           assignment of a device to a specific seat just reassign it to a different seat, or use flush-devices.

       flush-devices
           Removes all device assignments previously created with attach. After this call only automatically
           generated seats will remain and all seat hardware is assigned to them.

       terminate-seat [NAME...]
           Terminates all sessions on a seat. This kills all processes of all sessions on a seat and deallocates all
           runtime resources attached to them.

EXIT STATUS
       On success 0 is returned, a non-zero failure code otherwise.

ENVIRONMENT
       $SYSTEMD_PAGER
           Pager to use when --no-pager is not given; overrides $PAGER. Setting this to an empty string or the value
           cat is equivalent to passing --no-pager.

SEE ALSO
       systemd(1), systemctl(1), systemd-logind.service(8), logind.conf(5)



systemd 204                                                                                              LOGINCTL(1)
