LOOK(1)                                      BSD General Commands Manual                                     LOOK(1)

NAME
     look — display lines beginning with a given string

SYNOPSIS
     look [-bdf] [-t termchar] string [file ...]

DESCRIPTION
     The look utility displays any lines in file which contain string as a prefix.

     If file is not specified, the file /usr/share/dict/words is used, only alphanumeric characters are compared and
     the case of alphabetic characters is ignored.

     The following options are available:

     -b      Use a binary search on the given word list. If you are ignoring case with -f or ignoring non-alphanu‐
             meric characters with -d, the file must be sorted in the same way. Please note that these options are
             the default if no filename is given. See sort(1) for more information on sorting files.

     -d      Dictionary character set and order, i.e., only alphanumeric characters are compared.

     -f      Ignore the case of alphabetic characters.

     -t      Specify a string termination character, i.e., only the characters in string up to and including the
             first occurrence of termchar are compared.

ENVIRONMENT
     The LANG, LC_ALL and LC_CTYPE environment variables affect the execution of the look utility.  Their effect is
     described in environ(7).

FILES
     /usr/share/dict/words  the dictionary

EXIT STATUS
     The look utility exits 0 if one or more lines were found and displayed, 1 if no lines were found, and >1 if an
     error occurred.

COMPATIBILITY
     The original manual page stated that tabs and blank characters participated in comparisons when the -d option
     was specified.  This was incorrect and the current man page matches the historic implementation.

     look uses a linear search by default instead of a binary search, which is what most other implementations use
     by default.

SEE ALSO
     grep(1), sort(1)

HISTORY
     A look utility appeared in Version 7 AT&T UNIX.

BUGS
     Lines are not compared according to the current locale's collating order.  Input files must be sorted with
     LC_COLLATE set to ‘C’.

BSD                                                 July 17, 2004                                                BSD
