LUIT(1)                                        General Commands Manual                                       LUIT(1)



NAME
       luit - Locale and ISO 2022 support for Unicode terminals

SYNOPSIS
       luit [ options ] [ -- ] [ program [ args ] ]

DESCRIPTION
       Luit  is  a  filter  that can be run between an arbitrary application and a UTF-8 terminal emulator.  It will
       convert application output from the locale's encoding into UTF-8, and convert terminal input from UTF-8  into
       the locale's encoding.

       An  application  may also request switching to a different output encoding using ISO 2022 and ISO 6429 escape
       sequences.  Use of this feature is discouraged: multilingual applications should be modified to directly gen‐
       erate UTF-8 instead.

       Luit  is usually invoked transparently by the terminal emulator.  For information about running luit from the
       command line, see EXAMPLES below.

OPTIONS
       -h     Display some summary help and quit.

       -list  List the supported charsets and encodings, then quit.

       -V     Print luit's version and quit.

       -v     Be verbose.

       -c     Function as a simple converter from standard input to standard output.

       -p     In startup, establish a handshake between parent and child processes.  This is needed  for  some  sys‐
              tems, e.g., FreeBSD.

       -x     Exit as soon as the child dies.  This may cause luit to lose data at the end of the child's output.

       -argv0 name
              Set the child's name (as passed in argv[0]).

       -encoding encoding
              Set up luit to use encoding rather than the current locale's encoding.

       +oss   Disable interpretation of single shifts in application output.

       +ols   Disable interpretation of locking shifts in application output.

       +osl   Disable interpretation of character set selection sequences in application output.

       +ot    Disable  interpretation  of all sequences and pass all sequences in application output to the terminal
              unchanged.  This may lead to interesting results.

       -k7    Generate seven-bit characters for keyboard input.

       +kss   Disable generation of single-shifts for keyboard input.

       +kssgr Use GL codes after a single shift for keyboard input.  By default, GR codes are generated after a sin‐
              gle shift when generating eight-bit keyboard input.

       -kls   Generate locking shifts (SO/SI) for keyboard input.

       -gl gn Set  the  initial  assignment  of  GL.   The  argument should be one of g0, g1, g2 or g3.  The default
              depends on the locale, but is usually g0.

       -gr gk Set the initial assignment of GR.  The default depends on the locale, and is usually g2 except for EUC
              locales, where it is g1.

       -g0 charset
              Set the charset initially selected in G0.  The default depends on the locale, but is usually ASCII.

       -g1 charset
              Set the charset initially selected in G1.  The default depends on the locale.

       -g2 charset
              Set the charset initially selected in G2.  The default depends on the locale.

       -g3 charset
              Set the charset initially selected in G3.  The default depends on the locale.

       -ilog filename
              Log into filename all the bytes received from the child.

       -olog filename
              Log into filename all the bytes sent to the terminal emulator.

       -alias filename
              the locale alias file
              (default: /usr/share/X11/locale/locale.alias).

       --     End of options.

EXAMPLES
       The  most typical use of luit is to adapt an instance of XTerm to the locale's encoding.  Current versions of
       XTerm invoke luit automatically when it is needed.  If you are using an older release of XTerm, or a  differ‐
       ent terminal emulator, you may invoke luit manually:

              $ xterm -u8 -e luit

       If you are running in a UTF-8 locale but need to access a remote machine that doesn't support UTF-8, luit can
       adapt the remote output to your terminal:

              $ LC_ALL=fr_FR luit ssh legacy-machine

       Luit is also useful with applications that hard-wire an encoding that is different from the one normally used
       on  the  system  or  want to use legacy escape sequences for multilingual output.  In particular, versions of
       Emacs that do not speak UTF-8 well can use luit for multilingual output:

              $ luit -encoding 'ISO 8859-1' emacs -nw

       And then, in Emacs,

              M-x set-terminal-coding-system RET iso-2022-8bit-ss2 RET

FILES
       /usr/share/X11/locale/locale.alias
              The file mapping locales to locale encodings.

SECURITY
       On systems with SVR4 (“Unix-98”) ptys (Linux version 2.2 and later, SVR4), luit should be run as the invoking
       user.

       On  systems without SVR4 (“Unix-98”) ptys (notably BSD variants), running luit as an ordinary user will leave
       the tty world-writable; this is a security hole, and luit will generate a warning (but still accept to  run).
       A  possible  solution  is to make luit suid root; luit should drop privileges sufficiently early to make this
       safe.  However, the startup code has not been exhaustively audited, and the author  takes  no  responsibility
       for any resulting security issues.

       Luit will refuse to run if it is installed setuid and cannot safely drop privileges.

BUGS
       None of this complexity should be necessary.  Stateless UTF-8 throughout the system is the way to go.

       Charsets with a non-trivial intermediary byte are not yet supported.

       Selecting alternate sets of control characters is not supported and will never be.

SEE ALSO
       xterm(1), unicode(7), utf-8(7), charsets(7).
       Character Code Structure and Extension Techniques (ISO 2022, ECMA-35).
       Control Functions for Coded Character Sets (ISO 6429, ECMA-48).

AUTHOR
       The  version  of  Luit included in this X.Org Foundation release was originally written by Juliusz Chroboczek
       <jch@freedesktop.org> for the XFree86 Project and includes additional contributions  from  Thomas  E.  Dickey
       required for newer releases of xterm(1).



X Version 11                                         luit 1.1.1                                              LUIT(1)
