mbadblocks(1)                                  General Commands Manual                                 mbadblocks(1)



Name
       mbadblocks - tests a floppy disk, and marks the bad blocks in the FAT



Note of warning
       This  manpage  has  been automatically generated from mtools's texinfo documentation, and may not be entirely
       accurate or complete.  See the end of this man page for details.

Description
       The mbadblocks command is used to mark some clusters on an MS-DOS filesystem bad. It has the  following  syn‐
       tax:

       mbadblocks [-s sectorlist|-c clusterlist|-w] drive:

       If  no command line flags are supplied, Mbadblocks scans an MS-DOS filesystem for bad blocks by simply trying
       to read them and flag them if read fails. All blocks that are unused are scanned, and  if  detected  bad  are
       marked as such in the FAT.

       This command is intended to be used right after mformat.  It is not intended to salvage data from bad disks.

Command line options
       c file
              Use a list of bad clusters, rather than scanning for bad clusters itself.

       s file
              Use  a list of bad sectors (counted from beginning of filesystem), rather than trying for bad clusters
              itself.

       w      Write a random pattern to each cluster, then read it back and flag cluster as bad  if  mismatch.  Only
              free clusters are tested in such a way, so any file data is preserved.

Bugs
       Mbadblocks  should  (but  doesn't  yet  :-( ) also try to salvage bad blocks which are in use by reading them
       repeatedly, and then mark them bad.

See Also
       Mtools' texinfo doc

Viewing the texi doc
       This manpage has been automatically generated from mtools's texinfo documentation. However, this  process  is
       only  approximative, and some items, such as crossreferences, footnotes and indices are lost in this transla‐
       tion process.  Indeed, these items have no appropriate representation in the manpage format.   Moreover,  not
       all information has been translated into the manpage version.  Thus I strongly advise you to use the original
       texinfo doc.  See the end of this manpage for instructions how to view the texinfo doc.

       *      To generate a printable copy from the texinfo doc, run the following commands:

                     ./configure; make dvi; dvips mtools.dvi



       *      To generate a html copy,  run:

                     ./configure; make html

       A premade html can be found at `http://www.gnu.org/software/mtools/manual/mtools.html'

       *      To generate an info copy (browsable using emacs' info mode), run:

                     ./configure; make info



       The texinfo doc looks most pretty when printed or as html.  Indeed, in the info version certain examples  are
       difficult to read due to the quoting conventions used in info.

mtools-4.0.18                                          09Jan13                                         mbadblocks(1)
