mcat(1)                                        General Commands Manual                                       mcat(1)



Name
       mcat - dump raw disk image



Note of warning
       This  manpage  has  been automatically generated from mtools's texinfo documentation, and may not be entirely
       accurate or complete.  See the end of this man page for details.

Description
       The mcat command is used to copy an entire disk image from or to the floppy device.  It  uses  the  following
       syntax:

       mcat [-w] drive:

       Mcat performs the same task as the Unix cat command. It is included into the mtools package, since cat cannot
       access remote floppy devices offered by the mtools floppy daemon.  Now it is possible to create boot floppies
       remotely.

       The default operation is reading. The output is written to stdout.

       If  the  -w  option  is specified, mcat reads a disk-image from stdin and writes it to the given device.  Use
       this carefully! Because of the low-level nature of this command, it will happily  destroy  any  data  written
       before on the disk without warning!

See Also
       Mtools' texinfo doc

Viewing the texi doc
       This  manpage  has been automatically generated from mtools's texinfo documentation. However, this process is
       only approximative, and some items, such as crossreferences, footnotes and indices are lost in this  transla‐
       tion  process.   Indeed, these items have no appropriate representation in the manpage format.  Moreover, not
       all information has been translated into the manpage version.  Thus I strongly advise you to use the original
       texinfo doc.  See the end of this manpage for instructions how to view the texinfo doc.

       *      To generate a printable copy from the texinfo doc, run the following commands:

                     ./configure; make dvi; dvips mtools.dvi



       *      To generate a html copy,  run:

                     ./configure; make html

       A premade html can be found at `http://www.gnu.org/software/mtools/manual/mtools.html'

       *      To generate an info copy (browsable using emacs' info mode), run:

                     ./configure; make info



       The  texinfo doc looks most pretty when printed or as html.  Indeed, in the info version certain examples are
       difficult to read due to the quoting conventions used in info.

mtools-4.0.18                                          09Jan13                                               mcat(1)
