mcd(1)                                         General Commands Manual                                        mcd(1)



Name
       mcd - change MSDOS directory



Note of warning
       This  manpage  has  been automatically generated from mtools's texinfo documentation, and may not be entirely
       accurate or complete.  See the end of this man page for details.

Description
       The mcd command is used to change the mtools working directory on the MS-DOS disk. It uses the following syn‐
       tax:

          mcd [msdosdirectory]



       Without  arguments, mcd reports the current device and working directory.  Otherwise, mcd changes the current
       device and current working directory relative to an MS-DOS file system.

       The environmental variable MCWD may be used to locate the file where the device and current working directory
       information  is  stored.   The  default is `$HOME/.mcwd'.  Information in this file is ignored if the file is
       more than 6 hours old.

       Mcd returns 0 on success or 1 on failure.

       Unlike MS-DOS versions of CD, mcd can be used to change to another device. It  may  be  wise  to  remove  old
       `.mcwd' files at logout.

See Also
       Mtools' texinfo doc

Viewing the texi doc
       This  manpage  has been automatically generated from mtools's texinfo documentation. However, this process is
       only approximative, and some items, such as crossreferences, footnotes and indices are lost in this  transla‐
       tion  process.   Indeed, these items have no appropriate representation in the manpage format.  Moreover, not
       all information has been translated into the manpage version.  Thus I strongly advise you to use the original
       texinfo doc.  See the end of this manpage for instructions how to view the texinfo doc.

       *      To generate a printable copy from the texinfo doc, run the following commands:

                     ./configure; make dvi; dvips mtools.dvi



       *      To generate a html copy,  run:

                     ./configure; make html

       A premade html can be found at `http://www.gnu.org/software/mtools/manual/mtools.html'

       *      To generate an info copy (browsable using emacs' info mode), run:

                     ./configure; make info



       The  texinfo doc looks most pretty when printed or as html.  Indeed, in the info version certain examples are
       difficult to read due to the quoting conventions used in info.

mtools-4.0.18                                          09Jan13                                                mcd(1)
