mcopy(1)                                       General Commands Manual                                      mcopy(1)



Name
       mcopy - copy MSDOS files to/from Unix



Note of warning
       This  manpage  has  been automatically generated from mtools's texinfo documentation, and may not be entirely
       accurate or complete.  See the end of this man page for details.

Description
       The mcopy command is used to copy MS-DOS files to and from Unix. It uses the following syntax:

          mcopy [-bspanvmQT] [-D clash_option] sourcefile targetfile
          mcopy [-bspanvmQT] [-D clash_option] sourcefile [ sourcefiles... ] targetdirectory
          mcopy [-tnvm] MSDOSsourcefile



       Mcopy copies the specified file to the named file, or copies multiple files  to  the  named  directory.   The
       source and target can be either MS-DOS or Unix files.

       The  use of a drive letter designation on the MS-DOS files, 'a:' for example, determines the direction of the
       transfer.  A missing drive designation implies a Unix file whose path starts in the current directory.  If  a
       source drive letter is specified with no attached file name (e.g. mcopy a: .), all files are copied from that
       drive.

       If only a single, MS-DOS source parameter is provided (e.g. "mcopy a:foo.exe"), an implied destination of the
       current directory (`.') is assumed.

       A filename of `-' means standard input or standard output, depending on its position on the command line.

       Mcopy accepts the following command line options:

       t      Text  file  transfer.  Mcopy translates incoming carriage return/line feeds to line feeds when copying
              from MS-DOS to Unix, and vice-versa when copying from Unix to MS-DOS.

       b      Batch mode. Optimized for huge recursive copies, but less secure if a crash happens during the copy.

       s      Recursive copy.  Also copies directories and their contents

       p      Preserves the attributes of the copied files

       Q      When mcopying multiple files, quits as soon as one copy fails (for  example  due  to  lacking  storage
              space on the target disk)

       a      Text (ASCII) file transfer.  ASCII translates incoming carriage return/line feeds to line feeds.

       T      Text  (ASCII)  file  transfer with character set conversion.  Differs from -a in the ASCII also trans‐
              lates incoming PC-8 characters to ISO-8859-1 equivalents as far as possible.  When reading DOS  files,
              untranslatable  characters  are replaced by '#'; when writing DOS files, untranslatable characters are
              replaced by '.'.

       n      No confirmation when overwriting Unix files.  ASCII doesn't warn the user when overwriting an existing
              Unix  file.  If the target file already exists, and the -n option is not in effect, mcopy asks whether
              to overwrite the file or to rename the new file (`name clashes') for details).  In order to switch off
              confirmation for DOS files, use -o.

       m      Preserve the file modification time.

       v      Verbose. Displays the name of each file as it is copied.

Bugs
       Unlike  MS-DOS, the '+' operator (append) from MS-DOS is not supported. However, you may use mtype to produce
       the same effect:

          mtype a:file1 a:file2 a:file3 >unixfile
          mtype a:file1 a:file2 a:file3 | mcopy - a:msdosfile



See Also
       Mtools' texinfo doc

Viewing the texi doc
       This manpage has been automatically generated from mtools's texinfo documentation. However, this  process  is
       only  approximative, and some items, such as crossreferences, footnotes and indices are lost in this transla‐
       tion process.  Indeed, these items have no appropriate representation in the manpage format.   Moreover,  not
       all information has been translated into the manpage version.  Thus I strongly advise you to use the original
       texinfo doc.  See the end of this manpage for instructions how to view the texinfo doc.

       *      To generate a printable copy from the texinfo doc, run the following commands:

                     ./configure; make dvi; dvips mtools.dvi



       *      To generate a html copy,  run:

                     ./configure; make html

       A premade html can be found at `http://www.gnu.org/software/mtools/manual/mtools.html'

       *      To generate an info copy (browsable using emacs' info mode), run:

                     ./configure; make info



       The texinfo doc looks most pretty when printed or as html.  Indeed, in the info version certain examples  are
       difficult to read due to the quoting conventions used in info.

mtools-4.0.18                                          09Jan13                                              mcopy(1)
