MF(1)                                          General Commands Manual                                         MF(1)



NAME
       mf, mf-nowin, inimf, virmf - Metafont, a language for font and logo design

SYNOPSIS
       mf [options] [commands]

DESCRIPTION
       Metafont  reads  the  program in the specified files and outputs font rasters (in gf format) and font metrics
       (in tfm format).  The Metafont language is described in The Metafontbook.

       Like TeX, Metafont is normally used with a large body of precompiled macros, and font generation in  particu‐
       lar  requires  the support of several macro files.  This version of Metafont looks at its command line to see
       what name it was called under.  Both inimf and virmf are symlinks to the mf executable.  When called as inimf
       (or  when  the  -ini  option is given) it can be used to precompile macros into a .base file.  When called as
       virmf it will use the plain base.  When called under any other name, Metafont will use that name as the  name
       of  the  base  to  use.   For example, when called as mf the mf base is used, which is identical to the plain
       base.  Other bases than plain are rarely used.

       The commands given on the command line to the Metafont program are passed to it  as  the  first  input  line.
       (But  it is often easier to type extended arguments as the first input line, since UNIX shells tend to gobble
       up or misinterpret Metafont's favorite symbols, like semicolons, unless you quote them.)  As described in The
       Metafontbook, that first line should begin with a filename, a \controlsequence, or a &basename.

       The normal usage is to say

              mf  '\mode=<printengine>; [mag=magstep(n);]' input  font

       to start processing font.mf.  The single quotes are the best way of keeping the Unix shell from misinterpret‐
       ing the semicolons and from removing the \ character, which is needed here to  keep  Metafont  from  thinking
       that  you  want  to produce a font called mode.  (Or you can just say mf and give the other stuff on the next
       line, without quotes.)  Other control sequences, such as batchmode (for silent operation)  can  also  appear.
       The  name  font will be the ``jobname'', and is used in forming output file names.  If Metafont doesn't get a
       file name in the first line, the jobname is mfput.  The default extension, .mf, can be overridden by specify‐
       ing an extension explicitly.

       A  log  of error messages goes into the file jobname.log.  The output files are jobname.tfm and jobname.<num‐
       ber>gf, where <number> depends on the resolution and magnification of the font.  The mode in this example  is
       shown generically as <printengine>, a symbolic term for which the name of an actual device or, most commonly,
       the name localfont (see below) must be substituted.  If the mode is not specified or is not  valid  for  your
       site,  Metafont  will  default to proof mode which produces large character images for use in font design and
       refinement.  Proof mode can be recognized by the suffix .2602gf after the jobname.  Examples  of  proof  mode
       output can be found in Computer Modern Typefaces (Volume E of Computers and Typesetting).  The system of mag‐
       steps is identical to the system used by TeX, with values generally in the range 0.5, 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0  and
       5.0.  A listing of gf numbers for 118-dpi, 240-dpi and 300-dpi fonts is shown below.

           MAGSTEP        118 dpi   240 dpi   300 dpi
       mag=magstep(0)     118       240       300
       mag=magstep(0.5)   129       263       329
       mag=magstep(1)     142       288       360
       mag=magstep(2)     170       346       432
       mag=magstep(3)     204       415       518
       mag=magstep(4)     245       498       622
       mag=magstep(5)     294       597       746

       Magnification can also be specified not as a magstep but as an arbitrary value, such as 1.315, to create spe‐
       cial character sizes.

       Before font production can begin, it is necessary to set up the appropriate base files.  The minimum  set  of
       components  for  font  production  for a given print-engine is the plain.mf macro file and the local mode_def
       file.  The macros in plain.mf can be studied in an appendix to the Metafontbook; they were developed by  Don‐
       ald  E.  Knuth,  and  this file should never be altered except when it is officially upgraded.  Each mode_def
       specification helps adapt fonts to a particular print-engine.  There is a regular discussion of mode_defs  in
       TUGboat, the journal of the TeX Users Group.  The local ones in use on this computer should be in modes.mf.

       The  e  response to Metafont's error-recovery mode invokes the system default editor at the erroneous line of
       the source file.  There is an environment variable, MFEDIT, that overrides the  default  editor.   It  should
       contain  a string with "%s" indicating where the filename goes and "%d" indicating where the decimal linenum‐
       ber (if any) goes.  For example, an MFEDIT string for the vi editor can be set with the csh command
              setenv MFEDIT "vi +%d %s"

       A convenient file in the library is null.mf, containing nothing.  When mf can't find the file it  thinks  you
       want  to  input, it keeps asking you for another file name; responding `null' gets you out of the loop if you
       don't want to input anything.

ONLINE GRAPHICS OUTPUT
       Metafont can use most modern displays, so you can see its output without printing.  Chapter 23 of  The  Meta‐
       fontbook  describes what you can do.  This implementation of Metafont uses environment variables to determine
       which display device you want to use.  First it looks for a variable MFTERM, and then for TERM.  If it  can't
       find  either,  you  get no online output.  Otherwise, the value of the variable determines the device to use:
       hp2627, sun (for old SunView), tek, uniterm (for an Atari ST Tek 4014 emulator), xterm  (for  either  X10  or
       X11).  Some of these devices may not be supported in all Metafont executables; the choice is made at compila‐
       tion time.

       On some systems, there are two Metafont binaries, mf and mf-nowin.  On those systems the mf  binary  supports
       graphics,  while  the  mf-nowin  binary  does not.  The mf-nowin binary is used by scripts like mktexpk where
       graphics support is a nuisance rather than something helpful.

OPTIONS
       This version of Metafont understands the following command line options.

       -base base
              Use base as the name of the base to be used, instead of the name by which Metafont was called or a  %&
              line.

       -file-line-error
              Print  error  messages  in  the form file:line:error which is similar to the way many compilers format
              them.

       -no-file-line-error
              Disable printing error messages in the file:line:error style.

       -file-line-error-style
              This is the old name of the -file-line-error option.

       -halt-on-error
              Exit with an error code when an error is encountered during processing.

       -help  Print help message and exit.

       -ini   Be inimf, for dumping bases; this is implicitly true if the program is called as inimf.

       -interaction mode
              Sets the interaction mode.  The mode can be one of batchmode, nonstopmode, scrollmode, and  errorstop‐
              mode.  The meaning of these modes is the same as that of the corresponding commands.

       -jobname name
              Use name for the job name, instead of deriving it from the name of the input file.

       -kpathsea-debug bitmask
              Sets path searching debugging flags according to the bitmask.  See the Kpathsea manual for details.

       -maketex fmt
              Enable mktexfmt, where fmt must be mf.

       -no-maketex fmt
              Disable mktexfmt, where fmt must be mf.

       -output-directory directory
              Write  output  files  in directory instead of the current directory.  Look up input files in directory
              first, the along the normal search path.

       -parse-first-line
              If the first line of the main input file begins with %& parse it to look for a dump name or a  -trans‐
              late-file option.

       -no-parse-first-line
              Disable parsing of the first line of the main input file.

       -progname name
              Pretend to be program name.  This affects both the format used and the search paths.

       -recorder
              Enable  the filename recorder.  This leaves a trace of the files opened for input and output in a file
              with extension .fls.

       -translate-file tcxname
              Use the tcxname translation table.

       -version
              Print version information and exit.

ENVIRONMENT
       See the Kpathsearch library documentation (the `Path specifications' node) for the details of how  the  envi‐
       ronment variables are use when searching.  The kpsewhich utility can be used to query the values of the vari‐
       ables.

       If the environment variable TEXMFOUTPUT is set, Metafont attempts to put its output files in it, if they can‐
       not be put in the current directory.  Again, see tex(1).

       MFINPUTS
              Search path for input and opening files.

       MFEDIT Command template for switching to editor.

       MFTERM Determines the online graphics display.  If MFTERM is not set, and DISPLAY is set, the Metafont window
              support for X is used.  (DISPLAY must be set to a valid X server specification, as usual.)  If neither
              MFTERM nor DISPLAY is set, TERM is used to guess the window support to use.

FONT UTILITIES
       A number of utility programs are available.  The following is a partial list of available utilities and their
       purpose.  Consult your local Metafont guru for details.

       gftopk   Takes a gf file and produces a more tightly packed pk font file.

       gftodvi  Produces proof sheets for fonts.

       gftype   Displays the contents of a gf file in mnemonics and/or images.

       pktype   Mnemonically displays the contents of a pk file.

       mft      Formats a source file as shown in Computer Modern Typefaces.

FILES
       mf.pool
              Encoded text of Metafont's messages.

       *.base Predigested Metafont base files.

       $TEXMFMAIN/metafont/base/plain.mf
              The standard base.

       $TEXMFMAIN/metafont/misc/modes.mf
              The file of mode_defs for your site's various printers

NOTES
       This manual page is not meant to be exhaustive.  The complete documentation for this version of Metafont  can
       be found in the info manual Web2C: A TeX implementation.

BUGS
       On  January 4, 1986 the ``final'' bug in Metafont was discovered and removed.  If an error still lurks in the
       code, Donald E. Knuth promises to pay a finder's fee which doubles every year to the first person  who  finds
       it.  Happy hunting.

SUGGESTED READING
       Donald  E.  Knuth,  The  Metafontbook  (Volume  C  of  Computers and Typesetting), Addison-Wesley, 1986, ISBN
       0-201-13445-4.
       Donald E. Knuth, Metafont: The Program (Volume D of Computers and Typesetting),  Addison-Wesley,  1986,  ISBN
       0-201-13438-1.
       Donald  E.  Knuth,  Computer  Modern Typefaces (Volume E of Computers and Typesetting), Addison-Wesley, 1986,
       ISBN 0-201-13446-2.
       TUGboat (the journal of the TeX Users Group).

COMMENTS
       Warning: ``Type design can be hazardous to your other interests.  Once  you  get  hooked,  you  will  develop
       intense feelings about letterforms; the medium will intrude on the messages that you read.  And you will per‐
       petually be thinking of improvements to the fonts that you see  everywhere,  especially  those  of  your  own
       design.''

SEE ALSO
       gftopk(1), gftodvi(1), gftype(1), mft(1), pltotf(1), tftopl(1).

AUTHORS
       Metafont  was  designed  by Donald E. Knuth, who implemented it using his Web system for Pascal programs.  It
       was originally ported to Unix by Paul Richards at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.  This  page
       was mostly written by Pierre MacKay.



Web2C 2013                                          1 March 2011                                               MF(1)
