minfo(1)                                       General Commands Manual                                      minfo(1)



Name
       minfo - print the parameters of a MSDOS filesystem



Note of warning
       This  manpage  has  been automatically generated from mtools's texinfo documentation, and may not be entirely
       accurate or complete.  See the end of this man page for details.

Description
       The minfo command prints the parameters of a MS-DOS file system, such as number of sectors, heads and  cylin‐
       ders.   It  also  prints  an mformat command line which can be used to create a similar MS-DOS file system on
       another media.  However, this doesn't work with 2m or XDF media, and with MS-DOS 1.0 file systems
       minfo drive:


       Minfo supports the following option:

       v      Prints a hexdump of the boot sector, in addition to the other information

See Also
       Mtools' texinfo doc

Viewing the texi doc
       This manpage has been automatically generated from mtools's texinfo documentation. However, this  process  is
       only  approximative, and some items, such as crossreferences, footnotes and indices are lost in this transla‐
       tion process.  Indeed, these items have no appropriate representation in the manpage format.   Moreover,  not
       all information has been translated into the manpage version.  Thus I strongly advise you to use the original
       texinfo doc.  See the end of this manpage for instructions how to view the texinfo doc.

       *      To generate a printable copy from the texinfo doc, run the following commands:

                     ./configure; make dvi; dvips mtools.dvi



       *      To generate a html copy,  run:

                     ./configure; make html

       A premade html can be found at `http://www.gnu.org/software/mtools/manual/mtools.html'

       *      To generate an info copy (browsable using emacs' info mode), run:

                     ./configure; make info



       The texinfo doc looks most pretty when printed or as html.  Indeed, in the info version certain examples  are
       difficult to read due to the quoting conventions used in info.

mtools-4.0.18                                          09Jan13                                              minfo(1)
