MKFONTDIR(1)                                   General Commands Manual                                  MKFONTDIR(1)



NAME
       mkfontdir - create an index of X font files in a directory

SYNOPSIS
       mkfontdir [-n] [-x suffix] [-r] [-p prefix] [-e encoding-directory-name] ...  [--] [directory-name ... ]

DESCRIPTION
       For  each directory argument, mkfontdir reads all of the font files in the directory searching for properties
       named "FONT", or (failing that) the name of the file stripped of its suffix.  These are  converted  to  lower
       case  and  used  as  font  names,  and,  along  with  the  name of the font file, are written out to the file
       "fonts.dir" in the directory.  The X server and font server use "fonts.dir" to find font files.

       The kinds of font files read by mkfontdir depend on configuration parameters, but typically include PCF (suf‐
       fix  ".pcf"),  SNF  (suffix ".snf") and BDF (suffix ".bdf").  If a font exists in multiple formats, mkfontdir
       will first choose PCF, then SNF and finally BDF.

       The first line of fonts.dir gives the number of fonts in the file.  The remaining lines list the fonts  them‐
       selves, one per line, in two fields.  First is the name of the font file, followed by a space and the name of
       the font.

SCALABLE FONTS
       Because scalable font files do not usually include the X font name, the file "fonts.scale"  can  be  used  to
       name  the  scalable  fonts  in  the  directory.  The fonts listed in it are copied to fonts.dir by mkfontdir.
       "fonts.scale" has the same format as the "fonts.dir" file, and can be created with  the  mkfontscale(1)  pro‐
       gram.

FONT NAME ALIASES
       The  file  "fonts.alias",  which  can  be  put in any directory of the font-path, is used to map new names to
       existing fonts, and should be edited by hand.  The format is two white-space  separated  columns,  the  first
       containing  aliases and the second containing font-name patterns.  Lines beginning with "!" are comment lines
       and are ignored.

       If neither the alias nor the value specifies the size fields of the font name, this is a scalable  alias.   A
       font  name  of  any  size  that matches this alias will be mapped to the same size of the font that the alias
       resolves to.

       When a font alias is used, the name it references is searched for in the normal manner, looking through  each
       font  directory  in  turn.   This  means that the aliases need not mention fonts in the same directory as the
       alias file.

       To embed white space in either name, simply enclose it in double-quote marks; to embed double-quote marks (or
       any other character), precede them with back-slash:

       "magic-alias with spaces"     "\"font name\" with quotes"
       regular-alias            fixed

       If  the  string "FILE_NAMES_ALIASES" stands alone on a line, each file-name in the directory (stripped of its
       suffix) will be used as an alias for that font.

ENCODING FILES
       The option -e can be used to specify a directory with encoding files.  Every such directory  is  scanned  for
       encoding  files,  the  list of which is then written to an "encodings.dir" file in every font directory.  The
       "encodings.dir" file is used by the server to find encoding information.

       The "encodings.dir" file has the same format as "fonts.dir".  It maps encoding names  (strings  of  the  form
       CHARSET_REGISTRY-CHARSET_ENCODING ) to encoding file names.

OPTIONS
       The following options are supported:

       -e     Specify a directory containing encoding files.  The -e option may be specified multiple times, and all
              the specified directories will be read.  The order of the entries is significant, as  encodings  found
              in earlier directories override those in later ones; encoding files in the same directory are discrim‐
              inated by preferring compressed versions.

       -n     do not scan for fonts, do not write font directory files.   This  option  is  useful  when  generating
              encoding directories only.

       -p     Specify  a  prefix  that  is  prepended  to  the encoding file path names when they are written to the
              "encodings.dir" file.  The prefix is prepended as-is.  If a `/' is required between the prefix and the
              path names, it must be supplied explicitly as part of the prefix.

       -r     Keep  non-absolute  encoding directories in their relative form when writing the "encodings.dir" file.
              The default is to convert relative encoding directories to absolute directories by prepending the cur‐
              rent directory.  The positioning of this options is significant, as this option only applies to subse‐
              quent -e options.

       -x suffix
              Ignore fonts files of type suffix.

       --     End options.

FILES
       fonts.dir      List of fonts in the directory and the files they are stored in.  Created by mkfontdir.   Read
                      by the X server and font server each time the font path is set (see xset(1)).

       fonts.scale    List of scalable fonts in the directory.  Contents are copied to fonts.dir by mkfontdir.   Can
                      be created with mkfontscale(1).

       fonts.alias    List of font name aliases.  Read by the X server and font server each time the  font  path  is
                      set (see xset(1)).

       encodings.dir  List  of known encodings and the files they are stored in.  Created by mkfontdir.  Read by the
                      X server and font server each time a font with an unknown charset is opened.

SEE ALSO
       X(7), Xserver(1), mkfontscale(1), xfs(1), xset(1)



X Version 11                                       mkfontdir 1.0.7                                      MKFONTDIR(1)
