mkmanifest(1)                                  General Commands Manual                                 mkmanifest(1)



Name
       mkmanifest - makes list of file names and their DOS 8+3 equivalent



Note of warning
       This  manpage  has  been automatically generated from mtools's texinfo documentation, and may not be entirely
       accurate or complete.  See the end of this man page for details.

Description
       The mkmanifest command is used to create a shell script (packing list) to restore Unix filenames. Its  syntax
       is:

       mkmanifest [ files ]

       Mkmanifest  creates  a  shell script that aids in the restoration of Unix filenames that got clobbered by the
       MS-DOS filename restrictions.  MS-DOS filenames are restricted to 8 character names, 3 character  extensions,
       upper case only, no device names, and no illegal characters.

       The mkmanifest program is compatible with the methods used in pcomm, arc, and mtools to change perfectly good
       Unix filenames to fit the MS-DOS restrictions. This command is only useful if the target  system  which  will
       read the diskette cannot handle VFAT long names.

Example
       You want to copy the following Unix files to a MS-DOS diskette (using the mcopy command).

            very_long_name
            2.many.dots
            illegal:
            good.c
            prn.dev
            Capital



       ASCII converts the names to:

            very_lon
            2xmany.dot
            illegalx
            good.c
            xprn.dev
            capital



       The command:

          mkmanifest very_long_name 2.many.dots illegal: good.c prn.dev Capital >manifest

       would produce the following:

            mv very_lon very_long_name
            mv 2xmany.dot 2.many.dots
            mv illegalx illegal:
            mv xprn.dev prn.dev
            mv capital Capital



       Notice that "good.c" did not require any conversion, so it did not appear in the output.

       Suppose  I've  copied  these files from the diskette to another Unix system, and I now want the files back to
       their original names.  If the file "manifest" (the output captured above) was sent along with those files, it
       could be used to convert the filenames.

Bugs
       The  short  names  generated by mkmanifest follow the old convention (from mtools-2.0.7) and not the one from
       Windows 95 and mtools-3.0.

See Also
       Mtools' texinfo doc

Viewing the texi doc
       This manpage has been automatically generated from mtools's texinfo documentation. However, this  process  is
       only  approximative, and some items, such as crossreferences, footnotes and indices are lost in this transla‐
       tion process.  Indeed, these items have no appropriate representation in the manpage format.   Moreover,  not
       all information has been translated into the manpage version.  Thus I strongly advise you to use the original
       texinfo doc.  See the end of this manpage for instructions how to view the texinfo doc.

       *      To generate a printable copy from the texinfo doc, run the following commands:

                     ./configure; make dvi; dvips mtools.dvi



       *      To generate a html copy,  run:

                     ./configure; make html

       A premade html can be found at `http://www.gnu.org/software/mtools/manual/mtools.html'

       *      To generate an info copy (browsable using emacs' info mode), run:

                     ./configure; make info



       The texinfo doc looks most pretty when printed or as html.  Indeed, in the info version certain examples  are
       difficult to read due to the quoting conventions used in info.

mtools-4.0.18                                          09Jan13                                         mkmanifest(1)
