MKZFTREE(1)                                        H. Peter Anvin                                        MKZFTREE(1)



NAME
       mkzftree - Create a zisofs/RockRidge compressed file tree

SYNOPSIS
       mkzftree [OPTIONS]... INPUT OUTPUT

DESCRIPTION
       Takes  an  input  file tree (INPUT) and create a corresponding compressed file tree (OUTPUT) that can be used
       with an appropriately patched mkisofs(8) to create a transparent-compression ISO 9660/Rock  Ridge  filesystem
       using the "ZF" compression records.

OPTIONS
       -f, --force
              Always compress all files, even if they get larger when compressed.

       -z level, --level level
              Select  compression  level  (1-9,  default  is 9).  Lower compression levels are faster, but typically
              result in larger output.

       -u, --uncompress
              Uncompress an already compressed tree.  This can be used to read a compressed filesystem on  a  system
              which cannot read them natively.

       -p parallelism, --parallelism parallelism
              Compress  in  parallel.   The  parallelism value indicates how many compression threads are allowed to
              run.

       -x, --one-filesystem
              Do not cross filesystem boundaries, but create directory stubs at mount points.

       -X, --strict-one-filesystem
              Do not cross filesystem boundaries, and do not create directory stubs at mount points.

       -C path, --crib-path path
              Steal ("crib") files from another directory if it looks (based on name, size,  type  and  modification
              time)  like  they match entries in the new filesystem.  The "crib tree" is usually the compressed ver‐
              sion of an older version of the same workload; this thus allows for "incremental rebuilds" of  a  com‐
              pressed  filesystem tree.  The files are hardlinked from the crib tree to the output tree, so if it is
              desirable to keep the link count correct the crib path should be deleted before running mkisofs.   The
              crib tree must be on the same filesystem as the output tree.

       -l, --local
              Do not recurse into subdirectories, but create the directories themselves.

       -L, --strict-local
              Do not recurse into subdirectories, and do not create directories.

       -F, --file
              Indicates that INPUT may not necessarily be a directory; this allows operation on a single file.  Note
              especially that if -F is specified, and INPUT is a symlink, the symlink itself will be  copied  rather
              than whatever it happens to point to.

       -s, --sloppy
              Treat  file  modes, times and ownership data as less than precious information and don't abort if they
              cannot be set.  This may be useful if running mkisofs on an input tree you do not own.

       -v, --verbose
              Increase the program verbosity.

       -V value, --verbosity value
              Set the program verbosity to value.

       -q, --quiet
              Issue no messages whatsoever, including error messages.  This is the same as specifying -V 0.

       -h, --help
              Display a brief help message.

       -w, --version
              Display the release version.

BUGS
       Long options (beginning with --) may not work on all systems.  See the message printed out by mkzftree -h  to
       see if this applies to your system.

       Inode  change  times  (ctimes) are not copied.  This is a system limitation and applies to all file copy pro‐
       grams.

       If using the parallel option (-z) the access times (atimes) on directories may or may not be copied.   If  it
       is important that the atimes on directories are copied exactly, avoid using -z.

AUTHOR
       Written by H. Peter Anvin <hpa@zytor.com>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2001-2002 H. Peter Anvin.
       This  is  free  software;  see  the  source  for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MER‐
       CHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

SEE ALSO
       mkisofs(8)



zisofs-tools                                        30 July 2001                                         MKZFTREE(1)
