mlabel(1)                                      General Commands Manual                                     mlabel(1)



Name
       mlabel - make an MSDOS volume label



Note of warning
       This  manpage  has  been automatically generated from mtools's texinfo documentation, and may not be entirely
       accurate or complete.  See the end of this man page for details.

Description
       The mlabel command adds a volume label to a disk. Its syntax is:
       mlabel [-vcsn] [-N serial] drive:[new_label]


       Mlabel displays the current volume label, if present. If new_label is not given, and if neither the c nor the
       s  options  are  set,  it prompts the user for a new volume label.  To delete an existing volume label, press
       return at the prompt.

       The label is limited to 11 single-byte characters, e.g. Name1234567.

       Reasonable care is taken to create a valid MS-DOS volume label.  If an invalid  label  is  specified,  mlabel
       changes  the  label (and displays the new label if the verbose mode is set). Mlabel returns 0 on success or 1
       on failure.

       Mlabel supports the following options:

       c      Clears an existing label, without prompting the user

       s      Shows the existing label, without prompting the user.

       n      Assigns a new (random) serial number to the disk

       N serial
              Sets the supplied serial number. The serial number should be supplied as an 8 digit  hexadecimal  num‐
              ber, without spaces

See Also
       Mtools' texinfo doc

Viewing the texi doc
       This  manpage  has been automatically generated from mtools's texinfo documentation. However, this process is
       only approximative, and some items, such as crossreferences, footnotes and indices are lost in this  transla‐
       tion  process.   Indeed, these items have no appropriate representation in the manpage format.  Moreover, not
       all information has been translated into the manpage version.  Thus I strongly advise you to use the original
       texinfo doc.  See the end of this manpage for instructions how to view the texinfo doc.

       *      To generate a printable copy from the texinfo doc, run the following commands:

                     ./configure; make dvi; dvips mtools.dvi



       *      To generate a html copy,  run:

                     ./configure; make html

       A premade html can be found at `http://www.gnu.org/software/mtools/manual/mtools.html'

       *      To generate an info copy (browsable using emacs' info mode), run:

                     ./configure; make info



       The  texinfo doc looks most pretty when printed or as html.  Indeed, in the info version certain examples are
       difficult to read due to the quoting conventions used in info.

mtools-4.0.18                                          09Jan13                                             mlabel(1)
