mpartition(1)                                  General Commands Manual                                 mpartition(1)



Name
       mpartition - partition an MSDOS hard disk



Note of warning
       This  manpage  has  been automatically generated from mtools's texinfo documentation, and may not be entirely
       accurate or complete.  See the end of this man page for details.

Description
       The mpartition command is used to create MS-DOS file systems as partitions.  This is intended to be  used  on
       non-Linux  systems, i.e. systems where fdisk and easy access to SCSI devices are not available.  This command
       only works on drives whose partition variable is set.

       mpartition -p drive
       mpartition -r drive
       mpartition -I [-B bootSector] drive
       mpartition -a drive
       mpartition -d drive
       mpartition -c [-s sectors] [-h heads]
       [-t cylinders] [-v [-T type] [-b
       begin] [-l length] [-f]



       Mpartition supports the following operations:

       p      Prints a command line to recreate the partition for the drive.  Nothing is printed  if  the  partition
              for  the  drive  is  not defined, or an inconsistency has been detected.  If verbose (-v) is also set,
              prints the current partition table.

       r      Removes the partition described by drive.

       I      Initializes the partition table, and removes all partitions.

       c      Creates the partition described by drive.

       a      "Activates" the partition, i.e. makes it bootable.  Only one partition can be bootable at a time.

       d      "Deactivates" the partition, i.e. makes it unbootable.

       If no operation is given, the current settings are printed.

       For partition creations, the following options are available:

       s sectors
              The number of sectors per track of the partition (which is also the number of sectors  per  track  for
              the whole drive).

       h heads
              The  number  of  heads  of  the partition (which is also the number of heads for the whole drive).  By
              default, the geometry information (number of sectors and heads) is figured out from neighboring parti‐
              tion table entries, or guessed from the size.

       t cylinders
              The number of cylinders of the partition (not the number of cylinders of the whole drive.

       b begin
              The starting offset of the partition, expressed in sectors. If begin is not given, mpartition lets the
              partition begin at the start of the disk (partition number 1), or immediately after  the  end  of  the
              previous partition.

       l length
              The size (length) of the partition, expressed in sectors.  If end is not given, mpartition figures out
              the size from the number of sectors, heads and cylinders.  If these are not given either, it gives the
              partition the biggest possible size, considering disk size and start of the next partition.

       The following option is available for all operation which modify the partition table:

       f      Usually,  before  writing  back  any changes to the partition, mpartition performs certain consistency
              checks, such as checking for overlaps and proper alignment of the partitions.  If any of these  checks
              fails, the partition table is not changes.  The -f allows you to override these safeguards.

       The following options are available for all operations:

       v      Together  with  -p prints the partition table as it is now (no change operation), or as it is after it
              is modified.

       vv     If the verbosity flag is given twice, mpartition will print out a hexdump of the partition table  when
              reading it from and writing it to the device.

       The following option is available for partition table initialization:

       B bootSector
              Reads the template master boot record from file bootSector.

See Also
       Mtools' texinfo doc

Viewing the texi doc
       This  manpage  has been automatically generated from mtools's texinfo documentation. However, this process is
       only approximative, and some items, such as crossreferences, footnotes and indices are lost in this  transla‐
       tion  process.   Indeed, these items have no appropriate representation in the manpage format.  Moreover, not
       all information has been translated into the manpage version.  Thus I strongly advise you to use the original
       texinfo doc.  See the end of this manpage for instructions how to view the texinfo doc.

       *      To generate a printable copy from the texinfo doc, run the following commands:

                     ./configure; make dvi; dvips mtools.dvi



       *      To generate a html copy,  run:

                     ./configure; make html

       A premade html can be found at `http://www.gnu.org/software/mtools/manual/mtools.html'

       *      To generate an info copy (browsable using emacs' info mode), run:

                     ./configure; make info



       The  texinfo doc looks most pretty when printed or as html.  Indeed, in the info version certain examples are
       difficult to read due to the quoting conventions used in info.

mtools-4.0.18                                          09Jan13                                         mpartition(1)
