mren(1)                                        General Commands Manual                                       mren(1)



Name
       mren - rename an existing MSDOS file



Note of warning
       This  manpage  has  been automatically generated from mtools's texinfo documentation, and may not be entirely
       accurate or complete.  See the end of this man page for details.

Description
       The mren command is used to rename or move an existing MS-DOS file or subdirectory. Its syntax is:

       mren [-voOsSrRA] sourcefile targetfile


       Mren renames an existing file on an MS-DOS file system.

       In verbose mode, Mren displays the new filename if the name supplied is invalid.

       If the first syntax is used (only one source file), and if the target name doesn't  contain  any  slashes  or
       colons,  the  file  (or subdirectory) is renamed in the same directory, instead of being moved to the current
       mcd directory as would be the case with mmove. Unlike the MS-DOS version of REN, mren can be used  to  rename
       directories.

See Also
       Mtools' texinfo doc

Viewing the texi doc
       This  manpage  has been automatically generated from mtools's texinfo documentation. However, this process is
       only approximative, and some items, such as crossreferences, footnotes and indices are lost in this  transla‐
       tion  process.   Indeed, these items have no appropriate representation in the manpage format.  Moreover, not
       all information has been translated into the manpage version.  Thus I strongly advise you to use the original
       texinfo doc.  See the end of this manpage for instructions how to view the texinfo doc.

       *      To generate a printable copy from the texinfo doc, run the following commands:

                     ./configure; make dvi; dvips mtools.dvi



       *      To generate a html copy,  run:

                     ./configure; make html

       A premade html can be found at `http://www.gnu.org/software/mtools/manual/mtools.html'

       *      To generate an info copy (browsable using emacs' info mode), run:

                     ./configure; make info



       The  texinfo doc looks most pretty when printed or as html.  Indeed, in the info version certain examples are
       difficult to read due to the quoting conventions used in info.

mtools-4.0.18                                          09Jan13                                               mren(1)
