MSGCMP(1)                                                GNU                                               MSGCMP(1)



NAME
       msgcmp - compare message catalog and template

SYNOPSIS
       msgcmp [OPTION] def.po ref.pot

DESCRIPTION
       Compare  two  Uniforum  style .po files to check that both contain the same set of msgid strings.  The def.po
       file is an existing PO file with the translations.  The ref.pot file is the last created PO  file,  or  a  PO
       Template file (generally created by xgettext).  This is useful for checking that you have translated each and
       every message in your program.  Where an exact match cannot be found, fuzzy matching is used to produce  bet‐
       ter diagnostics.

       Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options too.

   Input file location:
       def.po translations

       ref.pot
              references to the sources

       -D, --directory=DIRECTORY
              add DIRECTORY to list for input files search

   Operation modifiers:
       -m, --multi-domain
              apply ref.pot to each of the domains in def.po

       -N, --no-fuzzy-matching
              do not use fuzzy matching

       --use-fuzzy
              consider fuzzy entries

       --use-untranslated
              consider untranslated entries

   Input file syntax:
       -P, --properties-input
              input files are in Java .properties syntax

       --stringtable-input
              input files are in NeXTstep/GNUstep .strings syntax

   Informative output:
       -h, --help
              display this help and exit

       -V, --version
              output version information and exit

AUTHOR
       Written by Peter Miller.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <bug-gnu-gettext@gnu.org>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright  ©  1995-1998, 2000-2010 Free Software Foundation, Inc.  License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later
       <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>
       This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.  There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent  per‐
       mitted by law.

SEE ALSO
       The  full  documentation  for  msgcmp is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the info and msgcmp programs are
       properly installed at your site, the command

              info msgcmp

       should give you access to the complete manual.



GNU gettext-tools 0.18.3                             August 2013                                           MSGCMP(1)
