MSGCOMM(1)                                               GNU                                              MSGCOMM(1)



NAME
       msgcomm - match two message catalogs

SYNOPSIS
       msgcomm [OPTION] [INPUTFILE]...

DESCRIPTION
       Find  messages  which  are common to two or more of the specified PO files.  By using the --more-than option,
       greater commonality may be requested before messages are printed.  Conversely, the --less-than option may  be
       used  to specify less commonality before messages are printed (i.e.  --less-than=2 will only print the unique
       messages).  Translations, comments and extracted comments will be preserved, but only from the first PO  file
       to define them.  File positions from all PO files will be cumulated.

       Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options too.

   Input file location:
       INPUTFILE ...
              input files

       -f, --files-from=FILE
              get list of input files from FILE

       -D, --directory=DIRECTORY
              add DIRECTORY to list for input files search

       If input file is -, standard input is read.

   Output file location:
       -o, --output-file=FILE
              write output to specified file

       The results are written to standard output if no output file is specified or if it is -.

   Message selection:
       -<, --less-than=NUMBER
              print messages with less than this many definitions, defaults to infinite if not set

       ->, --more-than=NUMBER
              print messages with more than this many definitions, defaults to 1 if not set

       -u, --unique
              shorthand for --less-than=2, requests that only unique messages be printed

   Input file syntax:
       -P, --properties-input
              input files are in Java .properties syntax

       --stringtable-input
              input files are in NeXTstep/GNUstep .strings syntax

   Output details:
       --color
              use colors and other text attributes always

       --color=WHEN
              use colors and other text attributes if WHEN.  WHEN may be 'always', 'never', 'auto', or 'html'.

       --style=STYLEFILE
              specify CSS style rule file for --color

       -e, --no-escape
              do not use C escapes in output (default)

       -E, --escape
              use C escapes in output, no extended chars

       --force-po
              write PO file even if empty

       -i, --indent
              write the .po file using indented style

       --no-location
              do not write '#: filename:line' lines

       -n, --add-location
              generate '#: filename:line' lines (default)

       --strict
              write out strict Uniforum conforming .po file

       -p, --properties-output
              write out a Java .properties file

       --stringtable-output
              write out a NeXTstep/GNUstep .strings file

       -w, --width=NUMBER
              set output page width

       --no-wrap
              do not break long message lines, longer than the output page width, into several lines

       -s, --sort-output
              generate sorted output

       -F, --sort-by-file
              sort output by file location

       --omit-header
              don't write header with 'msgid ""' entry

   Informative output:
       -h, --help
              display this help and exit

       -V, --version
              output version information and exit

AUTHOR
       Written by Peter Miller.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <bug-gnu-gettext@gnu.org>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright  ©  1995-1998, 2000-2010 Free Software Foundation, Inc.  License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later
       <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>
       This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.  There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent  per‐
       mitted by law.

SEE ALSO
       The  full  documentation for msgcomm is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the info and msgcomm programs are
       properly installed at your site, the command

              info msgcomm

       should give you access to the complete manual.



GNU gettext-tools 0.18.3                             August 2013                                          MSGCOMM(1)
