MSGINIT(1)                                               GNU                                              MSGINIT(1)



NAME
       msginit - initialize a message catalog

SYNOPSIS
       msginit [OPTION]

DESCRIPTION
       Creates a new PO file, initializing the meta information with values from the user's environment.

       Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options too.

   Input file location:
       -i, --input=INPUTFILE
              input POT file

       If no input file is given, the current directory is searched for the POT file.  If it is -, standard input is
       read.

   Output file location:
       -o, --output-file=FILE
              write output to specified PO file

       If no output file is given, it depends on the --locale option or the user's locale setting.  If it is -,  the
       results are written to standard output.

   Input file syntax:
       -P, --properties-input
              input file is in Java .properties syntax

       --stringtable-input
              input file is in NeXTstep/GNUstep .strings syntax

   Output details:
       -l, --locale=LL_CC
              set target locale

       --no-translator
              assume the PO file is automatically generated

       --color
              use colors and other text attributes always

       --color=WHEN
              use colors and other text attributes if WHEN.  WHEN may be 'always', 'never', 'auto', or 'html'.

       --style=STYLEFILE
              specify CSS style rule file for --color

       -p, --properties-output
              write out a Java .properties file

       --stringtable-output
              write out a NeXTstep/GNUstep .strings file

       -w, --width=NUMBER
              set output page width

       --no-wrap
              do not break long message lines, longer than the output page width, into several lines

   Informative output:
       -h, --help
              display this help and exit

       -V, --version
              output version information and exit

AUTHOR
       Written by Bruno Haible.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <bug-gnu-gettext@gnu.org>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright  ©  2001-2010  Free  Software  Foundation,  Inc.   License  GPLv3+:  GNU  GPL  version  3  or later
       <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>
       This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.  There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent  per‐
       mitted by law.

SEE ALSO
       The  full  documentation for msginit is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the info and msginit programs are
       properly installed at your site, the command

              info msginit

       should give you access to the complete manual.



GNU gettext-tools 0.18.3                             August 2013                                          MSGINIT(1)
