mtoolstest(1)                                  General Commands Manual                                 mtoolstest(1)



Name
       mtoolstest - tests and displays the configuration



Note of warning
       This  manpage  has  been automatically generated from mtools's texinfo documentation, and may not be entirely
       accurate or complete.  See the end of this man page for details.

Description
       The mtoolstest command is used to tests the mtools configuration files. To invoke it,  just  type  mtoolstest
       without any arguments.  Mtoolstest reads the mtools configuration files, and prints the cumulative configura‐
       tion to stdout. The output can be used as a configuration file itself (although  you  might  want  to  remove
       redundant clauses).  You may use this program to convert old-style configuration files into new style config‐
       uration files.

See Also
       Mtools' texinfo doc

Viewing the texi doc
       This manpage has been automatically generated from mtools's texinfo documentation. However, this  process  is
       only  approximative, and some items, such as crossreferences, footnotes and indices are lost in this transla‐
       tion process.  Indeed, these items have no appropriate representation in the manpage format.   Moreover,  not
       all information has been translated into the manpage version.  Thus I strongly advise you to use the original
       texinfo doc.  See the end of this manpage for instructions how to view the texinfo doc.

       *      To generate a printable copy from the texinfo doc, run the following commands:

                     ./configure; make dvi; dvips mtools.dvi



       *      To generate a html copy,  run:

                     ./configure; make html

       A premade html can be found at `http://www.gnu.org/software/mtools/manual/mtools.html'

       *      To generate an info copy (browsable using emacs' info mode), run:

                     ./configure; make info



       The texinfo doc looks most pretty when printed or as html.  Indeed, in the info version certain examples  are
       difficult to read due to the quoting conventions used in info.

mtools-4.0.18                                          09Jan13                                         mtoolstest(1)
