mtools(1)                                      General Commands Manual                                     mtools(1)



Name
       mtools - utilities to access DOS disks in Unix.



Introduction
       Mtools  is  a  collection  of  tools  to allow Unix systems to manipulate MS-DOS files: read, write, and move
       around files on an MS-DOS file system (typically a floppy disk).  Where reasonable, each program attempts  to
       emulate  the  MS-DOS  equivalent  command. However, unnecessary restrictions and oddities of DOS are not emu‐
       lated. For instance, it is possible to move subdirectories from one subdirectory to another.

       Mtools is sufficient to give access to MS-DOS file systems.  For instance, commands such as mdir a:  work  on
       the  a:  floppy  without  any preliminary mounting or initialization (assuming the default `/etc/mtools.conf'
       works on your machine).  With mtools, one can change floppies too without unmounting and mounting.

Where to get mtools
       Mtools can be found at the following places (and their mirrors):

          http://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/mtools/mtools-4.0.18.tar.gz
          http://mtools.linux.lu/mtools-4.0.18.tar.gz
          ftp://www.tux.org/pub/knaff/mtools/mtools-4.0.18.tar.gz
          ftp://ibiblio.unc.edu/pub/Linux/utils/disk-management/mtools-4.0.18.tar.gz



       Before reporting a bug, make sure that it has not yet been fixed in the Alpha patches which can be found at:

          http://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/mtools/
          http://mtools.linux.lu/
          ftp://www.tux.org/pub/knaff/mtools



       These patches are named mtools-version-ddmm.taz, where version stands for the base version, dd  for  the  day
       and mm for the month. Due to a lack of space, I usually leave only the most recent patch.

       There  is  an  mtools  mailing list at mtools @ tux.org .  Please send all bug reports to this list.  You may
       subscribe to the list by sending a message with 'subscribe mtools @ tux.org'  in  its  body  to  majordomo  @
       tux.org  . (N.B. Please remove the spaces around the "@" both times. I left them there in order to fool spam‐
       bots.)  Announcements of new mtools versions will also be sent to the list, in addition to the Linux announce
       newsgroups.  The mailing list is archived at http://lists.gnu.org/pipermail/info-mtools/

Common features of all mtools commands
   Options and filenames
       MS-DOS filenames are composed of a drive letter followed by a colon, a subdirectory, and a filename. Only the
       filename part is mandatory, the drive letter and the subdirectory are optional.  Filenames  without  a  drive
       letter  refer  to Unix files. Subdirectory names can use either the '/' or '\' separator.  The use of the '\'
       separator or wildcards requires the names to be enclosed in quotes to protect them from the  shell.  However,
       wildcards in Unix filenames should not be enclosed in quotes, because here we want the shell to expand them.

       The regular expression "pattern matching" routines follow the Unix-style rules.  For example, `*' matches all
       MS-DOS files in lieu of `*.*'.  The archive, hidden, read-only and system attribute bits are  ignored  during
       pattern matching.

       All options use the - (minus) as their first character, not / as you'd expect in MS-DOS.

       Most  mtools  commands allow multiple filename parameters, which doesn't follow MS-DOS conventions, but which
       is more user-friendly.

       Most mtools commands allow options that instruct them how to handle  file  name  clashes.  See  section  name
       clashes,  for  more  details  on  these.  All commands accept the -V flags which prints the version, and most
       accept the -v flag, which switches on verbose mode. In verbose mode, these commands print out the name of the
       MS-DOS  files  upon  which  they act, unless stated otherwise. See section Commands, for a description of the
       options which are specific to each command.

   Drive letters
       The meaning of the drive letters depends on the target architectures.  However, on most target architectures,
       drive  A is the first floppy drive, drive B is the second floppy drive (if available), drive J is a Jaz drive
       (if available), and drive Z is a Zip drive (if available).  On those systems where the device name is derived
       from  the  SCSI  id,  the  Jaz drive is assumed to be at SCSI target 4, and the Zip at SCSI target 5 (factory
       default settings).  On Linux, both drives are assumed to be the second drive on the SCSI bus (/dev/sdb).  The
       default settings can be changes using a configuration file (see section  Configuration).

       The  drive letter : (colon) has a special meaning. It is used to access image files which are directly speci‐
       fied on the command line using the -i options.

       Example:

           mcopy -i my-image-file.bin ::file1 ::file2 .



       This copies file1 and file2 from the image file (my-image-file.bin) to the /tmp directory.

       You can also supply an offset within the image file by including @@offset into the file name.

       Example:

           mcopy -i my-image-file.bin@@1M ::file1 ::file2 .



       This looks for the image at the offset of 1M in the file, rather than at its beginning.

   Current working directory
       The mcd command (`mcd') is used to establish the device and the current working directory  (relative  to  the
       MS-DOS  file  system),  otherwise the default is assumed to be A:/. However, unlike MS-DOS, there is only one
       working directory for all drives, and not one per drive.

   VFAT-style long file names
       This version of mtools supports VFAT style long filenames. If a Unix filename is too long to fit in  a  short
       DOS  name, it is stored as a VFAT long name, and a companion short name is generated. This short name is what
       you see when you examine the disk with a pre-7.0 version of DOS.
        The following table shows some examples of short names:

          Long name       MS-DOS name     Reason for the change
          ---------       ----------      ---------------------
          thisisatest     THISIS~1        filename too long
          alain.knaff     ALAIN~1.KNA     extension too long
          prn.txt         PRN~1.TXT       PRN is a device name
          .abc            ABC~1           null filename
          hot+cold        HOT_CO~1        illegal character



        As you see, the following transformations happen to derive a short name:

       *      Illegal characters are replaced by underscores. The illegal characters are ;+=[]',\"*\\<>/?:|.

       *      Extra dots, which cannot be interpreted as a main name/extension separator are removed

       *      A ~n number is generated,

       *      The name is shortened so as to fit in the 8+3 limitation

        The initial Unix-style file name (whether long or short) is also called the primary name,  and  the  derived
       short name is also called the secondary name.

        Example:

           mcopy /etc/motd a:Reallylongname

         Mtools  creates  a  VFAT entry for Reallylongname, and uses REALLYLO as a short name. Reallylongname is the
       primary name, and REALLYLO is the secondary name.

           mcopy /etc/motd a:motd

        Motd fits into the DOS filename limits. Mtools doesn't need to derivate another name. Motd  is  the  primary
       name, and there is no secondary name.

        In a nutshell: The primary name is the long name, if one exists, or the short name if there is no long name.

        Although  VFAT  is much more flexible than FAT, there are still names that are not acceptable, even in VFAT.
       There are still some illegal characters left (\"*\\<>/?:|), and device names are still reserved.

          Unix name       Long name       Reason for the change
          ---------       ----------      ---------------------
          prn             prn-1           PRN is a device name
          ab:c            ab_c-1          illegal character



        As you see, the following transformations happen if a long name is illegal:

       *      Illegal characters are replaces by underscores,

       *      A -n number is generated,

   Name clashes
       When writing a file to disk, its long name or short name may collide with an already existing file or  direc‐
       tory.  This  may happen for all commands which create new directory entries, such as mcopy, mmd, mren, mmove.
       When a name clash happens, mtools asks you what it should do. It offers several choices:

       overwrite
              Overwrites the existing file. It is not possible to overwrite a directory with a file.

       rename
              Renames the newly created file. Mtools prompts for the new filename

       autorename
              Renames the newly created file. Mtools chooses a name by itself, without prompting

       skip   Gives up on this file, and moves on to the next (if any)

       To chose one of these actions, type its first letter at the prompt. If you  use  a  lower  case  letter,  the
       action only applies for this file only, if you use an upper case letter, the action applies to all files, and
       you won't be prompted again.

       You may also chose actions (for all files) on the command line, when invoking mtools:

       -D o   Overwrites primary names by default.

       -D O   Overwrites secondary names by default.

       -D r   Renames primary name by default.

       -D R   Renames secondary name by default.

       -D a   Autorenames primary name by default.

       -D A   Autorenames secondary name by default.

       -D s   Skip primary name by default.

       -D S   Skip secondary name by default.

       -D m   Ask user what to do with primary name.

       -D M   Ask user what to do with secondary name.

       Note that for command line switches lower/upper differentiates between  primary/secondary  name  whereas  for
       interactive choices, lower/upper differentiates between just-this-time/always.

       The  primary  name is the name as displayed in Windows 95 or Windows NT: i.e. the long name if it exists, and
       the short name otherwise.  The secondary name is the "hidden" name, i.e.  the  short  name  if  a  long  name
       exists.

       By default, the user is prompted if the primary name clashes, and the secondary name is autorenamed.

       If a name clash occurs in a Unix directory, mtools only asks whether to overwrite the file, or to skip it.

   Case sensitivity of the VFAT file system
       The  VFAT  file system is able to remember the case of the filenames. However, filenames which differ only in
       case are not allowed to coexist in the same directory. For example if you store a file called LongFileName on
       a  VFAT  file system, mdir shows this file as LongFileName, and not as Longfilename. However, if you then try
       to add LongFilename to the same directory, it is refused, because case is ignored for clash checks.

       The VFAT file system allows to store the case of a filename in the attribute byte,  if  all  letters  of  the
       filename  are  the  same  case,  and  if all letters of the extension are the same case too. Mtools uses this
       information when displaying the files, and also to generate the Unix filename when mcopying to a Unix  direc‐
       tory. This may have unexpected results when applied to files written using an pre-7.0 version of DOS: Indeed,
       the old style filenames map to all upper case. This is different from the behavior  of  the  old  version  of
       mtools which used to generate lower case Unix filenames.

   high capacity formats
       Mtools supports a number of formats which allow to store more data on disk as usual. Due to different operat‐
       ing system abilities, these formats are not supported on all operating systems. Mtools recognizes these  for‐
       mats transparently where supported.

       In order to format these disks, you need to use an operating system specific tool. For Linux, suitable floppy
       tools can be found in the fdutils package at the following locations~:

          ftp://www.tux.org/pub/knaff/fdutils/.
          ftp://ibiblio.unc.edu/pub/Linux/utils/disk-management/fdutils-*



       See the manual pages included in that package for further detail:  Use  superformat  to  format  all  formats
       except XDF, and use xdfcopy to format XDF.

     More sectors
       The  oldest  method  of  fitting  more data on a disk is to use more sectors and more cylinders. Although the
       standard format uses 80 cylinders and 18 sectors (on a 3 1/2 high density disk), it is possible to use up  to
       83  cylinders  (on  most  drives) and up to 21 sectors. This method allows to store up to 1743K on a 3 1/2 HD
       disk. However, 21 sector disks are twice as slow as the standard 18 sector  disks  because  the  sectors  are
       packed so close together that we need to interleave them. This problem doesn't exist for 20 sector formats.

       These formats are supported by numerous DOS shareware utilities such as fdformat and vgacopy. In his infinite
       hubris, Bill Gate$ believed that he invented this, and called it `DMF disks', or `Windows  formatted  disks'.
       But  in reality, it has already existed years before! Mtools supports these formats on Linux, on SunOS and on
       the DELL Unix PC.

     Bigger sectors
       By using bigger sectors it is possible to go beyond the capacity  which  can  be  obtained  by  the  standard
       512-byte  sectors.  This  is because of the sector header. The sector header has the same size, regardless of
       how many data bytes are in the sector. Thus, we save some space by using fewer, but bigger sectors. For exam‐
       ple,  1 sector of 4K only takes up header space once, whereas 8 sectors of 512 bytes have also 8 headers, for
       the same amount of useful data.

       This method allows to store up to 1992K on a 3 1/2 HD disk.

       Mtools supports these formats only on Linux.

     2m
       The 2m format was originally invented by Ciriaco Garcia de Celis. It also uses bigger sectors than  usual  in
       order  to  fit more data on the disk.  However, it uses the standard format (18 sectors of 512 bytes each) on
       the first cylinder, in order to make these disks easier to handle by DOS. Indeed this method allows to have a
       standard sized boot sector, which contains a description of how the rest of the disk should be read.

       However,  the  drawback of this is that the first cylinder can hold less data than the others. Unfortunately,
       DOS can only handle disks where each track contains the same amount of data. Thus 2m hides the fact that  the
       first  track  contains less data by using a shadow FAT. (Usually, DOS stores the FAT in two identical copies,
       for additional safety.  XDF stores only one copy, but tells DOS that it stores two. Thus the space that would
       be  taken  up  by the second FAT copy is saved.) This also means that you should never use a 2m disk to store
       anything else than a DOS file system.

       Mtools supports these formats only on Linux.

     XDF
       XDF is a high capacity format used by OS/2. It can hold 1840 K per disk. That's lower than the best  2m  for‐
       mats, but its main advantage is that it is fast: 600 milliseconds per track. That's faster than the 21 sector
       format, and almost as fast as the standard 18 sector format. In order to access these disks, make sure mtools
       has been compiled with XDF support, and set the use_xdf variable for the drive in the configuration file. See
       section Compiling mtools, and `miscellaneous variables', for details on how to do this. Fast  XDF  access  is
       only available for Linux kernels which are more recent than 1.1.34.

       Mtools supports this format only on Linux.

       Caution  /  Attention distributors: If mtools is compiled on a Linux kernel more recent than 1.3.34, it won't
       run on an older kernel. However, if it has been compiled on an older kernel, it still runs on a newer kernel,
       except  that  XDF  access is slower. It is recommended that distribution authors only include mtools binaries
       compiled on kernels older than 1.3.34 until 2.0 comes out. When 2.0 will be out, mtools binaries compiled  on
       newer  kernels  may  (and should) be distributed. Mtools binaries compiled on kernels older than 1.3.34 won't
       run on any 2.1 kernel or later.

   Exit codes
       All the Mtools commands return 0 on success, 1 on utter failure, or 2 on partial  failure.   All  the  Mtools
       commands  perform a few sanity checks before going ahead, to make sure that the disk is indeed an MS-DOS disk
       (as opposed to, say an ext2 or MINIX disk). These checks may reject partially corrupted  disks,  which  might
       otherwise  still  be readable. To avoid these checks, set the MTOOLS_SKIP_CHECK environmental variable or the
       corresponding configuration file variable (see section  global variables)

   Bugs
       An unfortunate side effect of not guessing the proper device (when multiple disk capacities are supported) is
       an occasional error message from the device driver.  These can be safely ignored.

       The  fat  checking code chokes on 1.72 Mb disks mformatted with pre-2.0.7 mtools. Set the environmental vari‐
       able MTOOLS_FAT_COMPATIBILITY (or the corresponding  configuration  file  variable,  `global  variables')  to
       bypass the fat checking.

See also
       floppyd_installtest  mattrib mbadblocks mcd mclasserase mcopy mdel mdeltree mdir mdu mformat minfo mkmanifest
       mlabel mmd mmount mmove mrd mren mshortname mshowfat mtoolstest mtype



mtools-4.0.18                                          09Jan13                                             mtools(1)
