mtype(1)                                       General Commands Manual                                      mtype(1)



Name
       mtype - display contents of an MSDOS file



Note of warning
       This  manpage  has  been automatically generated from mtools's texinfo documentation, and may not be entirely
       accurate or complete.  See the end of this man page for details.

Description
       The mtype command is used to display contents of an MS-DOS file. Its syntax is:

       mtype [-ts] msdosfile [ msdosfiles... ]


       Mtype displays the specified MS-DOS file on the screen.

       In addition to the standard options, Mtype allows the following command line options:

       t      Text file viewing.  Mtype translates incoming carriage return/line feeds to line feeds.

       s      Mtype strips the high bit from the data.

       The mcd command may be used to establish the device and the current working directory (relative  to  MS-DOS),
       otherwise the default is A:/.

       Mtype returns 0 on success, 1 on utter failure, or 2 on partial failure.

       Unlike the MS-DOS version of TYPE, mtype allows multiple arguments.

See Also
       Mtools' texinfo doc

Viewing the texi doc
       This  manpage  has been automatically generated from mtools's texinfo documentation. However, this process is
       only approximative, and some items, such as crossreferences, footnotes and indices are lost in this  transla‐
       tion  process.   Indeed, these items have no appropriate representation in the manpage format.  Moreover, not
       all information has been translated into the manpage version.  Thus I strongly advise you to use the original
       texinfo doc.  See the end of this manpage for instructions how to view the texinfo doc.

       *      To generate a printable copy from the texinfo doc, run the following commands:

                     ./configure; make dvi; dvips mtools.dvi



       *      To generate a html copy,  run:

                     ./configure; make html

       A premade html can be found at `http://www.gnu.org/software/mtools/manual/mtools.html'

       *      To generate an info copy (browsable using emacs' info mode), run:

                     ./configure; make info



       The  texinfo doc looks most pretty when printed or as html.  Indeed, in the info version certain examples are
       difficult to read due to the quoting conventions used in info.

mtools-4.0.18                                          09Jan13                                              mtype(1)
