mzip(1)                                        General Commands Manual                                       mzip(1)



Name
       mzip - change protection mode and eject disk on Zip/Jaz drive



Note of warning
       This  manpage  has  been automatically generated from mtools's texinfo documentation, and may not be entirely
       accurate or complete.  See the end of this man page for details.

Description
       The mzip command is used to issue ZIP disk specific commands on Linux, Solaris or HP-UX. Its syntax is:

       mzip [-epqrwx]


       Mzip allows the following command line options:

       e      Ejects the disk.

       f      Force eject even if the disk is mounted (must be given in addition to -e).

       r      Write protect the disk.

       w      Remove write protection.

       p      Password write protect.

       x      Password protect

       u      Temporarily unprotect the disk until it is ejected.  The disk becomes writable, and  reverts  back  to
              its old state when ejected.

       q      Queries the status

       To  remove  the  password,  set it to one of the password-less modes -r or -w: mzip will then ask you for the
       password, and unlock the disk.  If you have forgotten the password, you can get rid of it by  low-level  for‐
       matting the disk (using your SCSI adapter's BIOS setup).

       The ZipTools disk shipped with the drive is also password protected.  On MS-DOS or on a Mac, this password is
       automatically removed once the ZipTools have been installed.  From  various  articles  posted  to  Usenet,  I
       learned  that  the  password  for  the tools disk is APlaceForYourStuff.  Mzip knows about this password, and
       tries it first, before prompting you for a password.  Thus mzip -w z: unlocks the tools disk.  The tools disk
       is  formatted  in  a  special way so as to be usable both in a PC and in a Mac.  On a PC, the Mac file system
       appears as a hidden file named `partishn.mac'.  You may erase it to reclaim the 50 Megs of space taken up  by
       the Mac file system.

Bugs
       This  command  is  a big kludge.  A proper implementation would take a rework of significant parts of mtools,
       but unfortunately I don't have the time for this right now. The main downside of this implementation is  that
       it is inefficient on some architectures (several successive calls to mtools, which defeats mtools' caching).

See Also
       Mtools' texinfo doc

Viewing the texi doc
       This  manpage  has been automatically generated from mtools's texinfo documentation. However, this process is
       only approximative, and some items, such as crossreferences, footnotes and indices are lost in this  transla‐
       tion  process.   Indeed, these items have no appropriate representation in the manpage format.  Moreover, not
       all information has been translated into the manpage version.  Thus I strongly advise you to use the original
       texinfo doc.  See the end of this manpage for instructions how to view the texinfo doc.

       *      To generate a printable copy from the texinfo doc, run the following commands:

                     ./configure; make dvi; dvips mtools.dvi



       *      To generate a html copy,  run:

                     ./configure; make html

       A premade html can be found at `http://www.gnu.org/software/mtools/manual/mtools.html'

       *      To generate an info copy (browsable using emacs' info mode), run:

                     ./configure; make info



       The  texinfo doc looks most pretty when printed or as html.  Indeed, in the info version certain examples are
       difficult to read due to the quoting conventions used in info.

mtools-4.0.18                                          09Jan13                                               mzip(1)
