native2ascii(1)                              Internationalization Tools                              native2ascii(1)



NAME
       native2ascii - Creates localizable applications by converting a file with characters in any supported
       character encoding to one with ASCII and/or Unicode escapes or vice versa.

SYNOPSIS
       native2ascii [ inputfile ] [ outputfile ]


       inputfile
              The encoded file to be converted to ASCII.

       outputfile
              The converted ASCII file.

DESCRIPTION
       The native2ascii command converts encoded files supported by the Java Runtime Environment (JRE) to files
       encoded in ASCII, using Unicode escapes (\uxxxx) notation for all characters that are not part of the ASCII
       character set. This process is required for properties files that contain characters not in ISO-8859-1
       character sets. The tool can also perform the reverse conversion.

       If the outputfile value is omitted, then standard output is used for output. If, in addition, the inputfile
       value is omitted, then standard input is used for input.

OPTIONS
       -reverse
              Perform the reverse operation: Converts a file encoded in ISO-8859-1 with Unicode escapes to a file in
              any character encoding supported by the JRE.

       -encoding encoding_name
              Specifies the name of the character encoding to be used by the conversion procedure. If this option is
              not present, then the default character encoding (as determined by the
              java.nio.charset.Charset.defaultCharset method) is used. The encoding_name string must be the name of
              a character encoding that is supported by the JRE. See Supported Encodings at
              http://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/intl/encoding.doc.html

       -Joption
              Passes option to the Java Virtual Machine (JVM), where option is one of the options described on the
              reference page for the Java application launcher. For example, -J-Xms48m sets the startup memory to 48
              MB. See java(1).



JDK 8                                             21 November 2013                                   native2ascii(1)
