netpbm(1)                                      General Commands Manual                                     netpbm(1)



NAME
       netpbm - package of graphics manipulation programs and libraries


DESCRIPTION
       Netpbm is a package of graphics programs and programming libraries.

       There  are  over  220  separate  programs in the package, most of which have "pbm", "pgm", "ppm", or "pnm" in
       their names.  For example, pnmscale and giftopnm.

       For example, you might use pnmscale to shrink an image by 10%.  Or use pnmcomp to overlay one image on top of
       another.   Or  use  pbmtext  to  create  an  image  of text.  Or reduce the number of colors in an image with
       pnmquant.


The Netpbm Formats
       All of the programs work with a set of graphics formats called the  "netpbm"  formats.   Specifically,  these
       formats  are pbm(5), pgm(5), ppm(5), and pam(5).  The first three of these are sometimes known generically as
       pnm.  Many of the Netpbm programs convert from a Netpbm format to another format or vice versa.  This  is  so
       you can use the Netpbm programs to work on graphics of any format.  It is also common to use a combination of
       Netpbm programs to convert from one non-Netpbm format to another non-Netpbm format.   Netpbm  has  converters
       for  over  80 graphics formats, and as a package Netpbm lets you do more graphics format conversions than any
       other computer graphics facility.

       The Netpbm formats are all raster formats, i.e. they describe an image as a matrix of  rows  and  columns  of
       pixels.   In  the  PBM format, the pixels are black and white.  In the PGM format, pixels are shades of gray.
       In the PPM format, the pixels are in full color.  The PAM format is more sophisticated.   A  replacement  for
       all  three of the other formats, it can represent matrices of general data including but not limited to black
       and white, grayscale, and color images.

       Programs designed to work with PBM images have "pbm" in their names.  Programs designed  to  work  with  PGM,
       PPM, and PAM images similarly have "pgm", "ppm", and "pam" in their names.

       All  Netpbm programs designed to read PGM images see PBM images as if they were PGM too.  All Netpbm programs
       designed to read PPM images see PGM and PBM images as if they were PPM.  See the section "Implied Format Con‐
       version" below.

       Programs  that  have  "pnm" in their names read PBM, PGM, and PPM but unlike "ppm" programs, they distinguish
       between them and their function depends on the format.  For example, pnmtogif creates a black and  white  GIF
       output image if its input is PBM or PGM, but a color GIF output image if its input is PPM.  And pnmscale pro‐
       duces an output image of the same format as the input.  A ppmscale program would read  all  three  PNM  input
       formats, but would see them all as PPM and would always generate PPM output.

       If  it  seems  wasteful to you to have three separate PNM formats, be aware that there is a historical reason
       for it.  In the beginning, there were only PBMs.  PGMs came later, and then PPMs.  Much later came PAM, which
       realizes the possibility of having just one aggregate format.

       The formats are described in the man pages pbm(5), pgm(5), ppm(5), and pam(5),


Implied Format Conversion
       A  program  that uses the PGM library to read an image can read a PBM image as well as a PGM image.  The pro‐
       gram sees the PBM image as if it were the equivalent PGM image, with a maxval of 255.

       A program that uses the PPM library to read an image can read a PGM image as well as a PPM image  and  a  PBM
       image  as well as a PGM image.  The program sees the PBM or PGM image as if it were the equivalent PPM image,
       with a maxval of 255 in the PBM case and the same maxval as the PGM in the PGM case.


Netpbm and Transparency
       In many graphics format, there's a means of indicating that certain parts of the image  are  wholly  or  par‐
       tially  transparent,  meaning  that  if  it  were  displayed "over" another image, the other image would show
       through there.  Netpbm formats deliberately omit that capability, since their purpose is to be extremely sim‐
       ple.

       In  Netpbm, you handle transparency via a transparency mask in a separate (slightly redefined) PGM image.  In
       this pseudo-PGM, what would normally be a pixel's intensity is instead it an opaqueness value.   See  pgm(5).
       pnmcomp is an example of a program that uses a PGM transparency mask.


The Netpbm Programs
       The  Netpbm  programs  are generally useful run by a person from a command shell, but are also designed to be
       used by programs.  A common characteristic of Netpbm programs is that they are simple,  fundamental  building
       blocks.   They are most powerful when stacked in pipelines.  Netpbm programs do not use graphical user inter‐
       faces (in fact, none of them display graphics at all, except for a very simple Linux Svgalib  displayer)  and
       do not seek input from a user.

       Each of these programs has its own man page.


Common Options
       There  are  a  few options that are present on all programs that are based on the Netpbm libraries, including
       virtually all Netpbm programs.  These are not mentioned in the individual man pages for the programs.


       -quiet Suppress all informational messages that would otherwise be issued to Standard Error.  (To be precise,
              this only works to the extent that the program in question implements the Netpbm convention of issuing
              all informational messages via the pm_message() service of the Netpbm libraries).

       -version
              Instead of doing anything else, report the version of the libpbm library linked with the  program  (it
              may  have  been linked statically into the program, or dynamically linked at run time).  Normally, the
              Netpbm programs and the libraries are installed at the same time, so this tells you the version of the
              program and all the other Netpbm libraries and files it uses as well.

              Here is a directory of the Netpbm programs.  You can also use man -k to search for a program that does
              what you want.


   Converters
       ppmtompeg
              convert series of PPM frames to an MPEG movie

       jpegtopnm
              convert JFIF/JPEG/EXIF file to Netpbm format

       pnmtojpeg
              convert PPM to JPEG/JFIF/EXIF format

       anytopnm
              convert any graphics format to Netpbm format

       bmptoppm
              convert Windows or OS/2 Bitmap file to PPM

       ppmtobmp
              convert PPM to Windows or OS/2 Bitmap file

       winicontoppm
              convert Windows icon file to PPM

       ppmtowinicon
              convert PPM to Windows icon file

       giftopnm
              convert GIF to portable anymap

       ppmtogif
              convert PPM to GIF

       pnmtopng
              convert Netpbm format to Portable Network Graphics

       pngtopnm
              convert PNG (Portable Network Graphics) to Netpbm formats

       palmtopnm
              convert Palm pixmap to Netpbm formats

       pnmtopalm
              convert Netpbm formats to Palm pixmap

       jbigtopbm
              convert JBIG BIE (compressed bitmap) to PBM

       pamtopnm
              convert a PAM image to PBM, PGM, or PPM

       pbmtojbig
              convert PBM to JBIG BIE (compressed bitmap)

       pnmtofiasco
              convert Netpbm image to Fiasco (wfa) highly compressed format

       fiascotopnm
              convert Fiasco (wfa) highly compressed format to Netpbm image

       hpcdtoppm
              convert photo CD to PPM

       pbmtonokia
              convert PBM to Nokia Smart Messaging Format (SMF)

       pbmtowbmp
              convert PBM to WAP (Wireless App Protocol) Wireless Bitmap

       wbmptopbm
              convert WAP (Wireless App Protocol) Wireless Bitmap to PBM

       neotoppm
              convert Atari Neochrome (.neo) image to PPM

       ppmtoneo
              convert PPM image to Atari Neochrome (.neo)

       pbmtomda
              convert from PBM to Microdesign (for Amstrad PCWs)

       mdatopbm
              convert from Microdesign (for Amstrad PCWs) to PBM

       atktopbm
              convert Andrew Toolkit raster object to PBM

       pbmtoatk
              convert PBM to Andrew Toolkit raster object

       brushtopbm
              convert Xerox doodle brushes to PBM

       cmuwmtopbm
              convert CMU window manager format to PBM

       g3topbm
              convert Group 3 FAX to PBM

       pbmtog3
              convert PBM to Group 3 FAX

       icontopbm
              convert Sun icon to PBM

       pbmtoicon
              convert PBM to Sun icon

       gemtopnm
              convert GEM .img format to PBM or pixmap

       macptopbm
              convert MacPaint to PBM

       pbmtomacp
              convert PBM to MacPaint

       mgrtopbm
              convert MGR format to PBM

       pbmtomgr
              convert PBM to MGR format

       pi3topbm
              convert Atari Degas .pi3 to PBM

       pbmtopi3
              convert PBM to Atari Degas .pi3

       xbmtopbm
              convert X10 or X11 bitmap to PBM

       pbmtoxbm
              convert PBM to X11 bitmap

       pbmtox10bm
              convert PBM to X10 bitmap

       ybmtopbm
              convert Bennet Yee "face" file into PBM

       pbmtoybm
              convert PBM into Bennet Yee "face" file

       pbmto10x
              convert PBM to Gemini 10x printer graphics

       pbmtoascii
              convert PBM to ASCII graphic form

       asciitopgm
              convert ASCII character graphics to PGM

       pbmtobbnbg
              convert PBM to BBN BitGraph graphics

       pbmtocmuwm
              convert PBM to CMU window manager format

       pbmtoepson
              convert PBM to Epson printer graphics

       pbmtogem
              convert PBM into GEM .img file

       pbmtogo
              convert PBM to GraphOn graphics

       pbmtolj
              convert PBM to HP LaserJet black and white graphics

       ppmtolj
              convert PPM to HP LaserJet color graphics (PCL)

       pjtoppm
              convert HP PaintJet file to PPM

       ppmtopj
              convert PPM to HP PaintJet file

       thinkjettopbm
              convert HP Thinkjet printer stream to PBM

       pbmtoplot
              convert PBM into Unix plot(5) file

       pbmtoptx
              convert PBM to Printronix graphics

       pbmtozinc
              convert PBM to Zinc Interface Library icon

       fitstopnm
              convert FITS format to portable anymap

       pnmtofits
              convert Netpbm formats to FITS format

       fstopgm
              convert Usenix FaceSaver(tm) format to PGM

       pgmtofs
              convert PGM to Usenix FaceSaver(tm) format

       hipstopgm
              convert HIPS format to PGM

       lispmtopgm
              convert a Lisp Machine bitmap file into PGM format

       pgmtolispm
              convert PGM into Lisp Machine format

       pnmtops
              convert Netpbm formats to Postscript

       pstopnm
              convert Postscript to Netpbm formats

       psidtopgm
              convert PostScript "image" data to PGM

       pbmtolps
              convert PBM image to Postscript using lines

       pbmtoepsi
              convert a PBM image to encapsulated Postscript preview bitmap

       pbmtopsg3
              convert PBM images to Postscript using G3 fax compression.

       rawtopgm
              convert raw grayscale bytes to PGM

       pgmtopbm
              convert PGM to PBM

       gouldtoppm
              convert Gould scanner file to PPM

       ilbmtoppm
              convert IFF ILBM to PPM

       ppmtoilbm
              convert PPM to IFF ILBM

       imgtoppm
              convert Img-whatnot to PPM

       mtvtoppm
              convert MTV ray-tracer output to PPM

       pcxtoppm
              convert PC Paintbrush format to PPM

       pgmtoppm
              colorize a portable graymap into a PPM

       pi1toppm
              convert Atari Degas .pi1 to PPM

       ppmtopi1
              convert PPM to Atari Degas .pi1

       picttoppm
              convert Macintosh PICT to PPM

       ppmtopict
              convert PPM to Macintosh PICT

       qrttoppm
              convert QRT ray-tracer output to PPM

       rawtoppm
              convert raw RGB bytes to PPM

       sldtoppm
              convert an AutoCAD slide file into a PPM

       spctoppm
              convert Atari compressed Spectrum to PPM

       sputoppm
              convert Atari uncompressed Spectrum to PPM

       tgatoppm
              convert TrueVision Targa file to PPM

       ppmtotga
              convert PPM to TrueVision Targa file

       ximtoppm
              convert Xim to PPM

       xpmtoppm
              convert XPM format to PPM

       ppmtoxpm
              convert PPM to XPM format

       yuvtoppm
              convert Abekas YUV format to PPM

       eyuvtoppm
              convert Encoder/Berkeley YUV format to PPM

       ppmtoeyuv
              convert PPM to Encoder/Berkeley YUV format

       ppmtoyuv
              convert PPM to Abekas YUV format

       ppmtoyuvsplit
              convert PPM to 3 subsampled raw YUV files

       yuvsplittoppm
              merge 3 subsampled raw YUV files to one PPM

       ppmtoacad
              convert PPM to AutoCAD database or slide

       ppmtoicr
              convert PPM to NCSA ICR graphics

       ppmtopcx
              convert PPM to PC Paintbrush format

       ppmtopgm
              convert PPM to portable graymap

       ppmtopuzz
              convert PPM to X11 "puzzle" file

       rasttopnm
              convert Sun raster file to Netpbm formats

       pnmtorast
              convert Netpbm formats to Sun raster file

       tifftopnm
              convert TIFF file to portable anymap

       pnmtotiff
              convert Netpbm formats to TIFF RGB file

       pnmtotiffcmyk
              convert Netpbm formats to TIFF CMYK file

       xwdtopnm
              convert X10 or X11 window dump to Netpbm formats

       pnmtoxwd
              convert Netpbm formats to X11 window dump

       pnmtoplainpnm
              convert regular Netpbm format image into plain Netpbm format

       pbmtopgm
              convert PBM file to PGM by averaging areas

       411toppm
              convert 411 (Sony Mavica) to PPM

       ppmtosixel
              convert PPM to DEC sixel format

       ppmtouil
              convert PPM to Motif UIL icon file

       sbigtopgm
              convert Santa Barbara Instrument Group CCD file to PGM

       vidtoppm
              convert Parallax XVideo JPEG to sequence of PPM files

       pnmtorle
              convert PNM to Utah Raster Toolkit (urt/rle) file

       rletopnm
              convert Utah Raster Toolkit (urt/rle) file to PNM

       ppmtoleaf
              convert PPM to Interleaf

       leaftoppm
              convert Interleaf to PPM

       bioradtopgm
              convert Biorad confocal image to PGM

       pbmtoln03
              convert PGM image to Dec LN03+ Sixel image

       pbmtopk
              convert PBM image to packed format (PK) font

       pktopbm
              convert packed format (PK) font to PBM image


   Image Generators
       All of these generate Netpbm format output.


       pbmmake
              create a blank PBM image of a specified size

       ppmmake
              create a PPM image of a specified size and color

       pgmramp
              generate a grayscale ramp

       ppmpat create a pretty PPM image

       ppmrainbow
              create a spectrum-like image with colors fading together.

       pgmnoise
              create a PGM image of white noise

       pbmtext
              render text into a PBM image

       pbmupc create a Universal Product Code PBM image

       ppmcie generate a CIE color map PPM image

       pbmpage
              create a printer test pattern page in PBM format

       ppmcolors
              create a color map (PPM image) containing all possible colors of given maxval



   Image Editors
       All of these work on the Netpbm formats


       ppmlabel
              Add text to an image

       pnmshadow
              add a shadow to an image so it looks like it's floating

       ppmbrighten
              brighten or dim an image -- change saturation and value

       ppmdim dim an image - different way from ppmbrighten

       pbmreduce
              reduce a PBM N times, using Floyd-Steinberg

       pgmnorm
              normalize contrast in a PGM image

       ppmnorm
              normalize contrast in a PPM image

       pbmpscale
              enlarge a PBM image with edge smoothing

       pnmscale
              scale an image with high precision

       pnmscalefixed
              scale an image quickly with low precision

       pnmenlarge
              enlarge an image N times

       ppmdither
              ordered dither for color images

       pnmcolormap
              Choose the N best colors to represent an image; create a colormap

       pnmremap
              Replace colors in an image with those from a color map

       ppmquant
              quantize colors in a color image down to fewer colors

       pnmquant
              quantize colors/shades in a color or grayscale image down to fewer

       ppmquantall
              quantize colors on many files

       ppmrelief
              run a Laplacian Relief filter on a PPM

       pnmarith
              perform arithmetic on two images

       pnmcat concatenate images

       pnmpad add borders to an image

       pnmcomp
              create composite (overlay) of images

       ppmmix mix (overlay) two images.

       pnmcrop
              crop all like-colored borders off an image

       pamcut select a rectangular region from an image

       pnmcut obsolete version of pamcut (kept because it may have fewer bugs)

       pamdice
              slice an image into many horizontally and/or vertically

       pamdeinterlace
              remove every other row from an image

       pamchannel
              extract a single plane (channel, e.g. R, G, or B) from an image

       pnmdepth
              change the maxval in an image

       pnmflip
              perform one or more flip operations on an image

       pamstretch
              scale up an image by inserting interpolated pixels

       pamstretch-gen
              scale by non-integer values using pamstretch and pnmscale

       pnminvert
              invert an image

       pnmgamma
              perform gamma correction on an image

       pnmhisteq
              histogram equalize image to increase contrast

       pnmmargin
              add a margin to an image

       pnmpaste
              paste a rectangle into an image

       pnmrotate
              rotate an image

       pnmshear
              shear an image

       pnmsmooth
              smooth am image

       pnmtile
              replicate an image into a specified size

       pbmclean
              remove lone pixels (snow) from a PBM image

       pnmalias
              antialias an image

       ppmchange
              change all of one color to another in PPM image

       pnmnlfilt
              filter an image by replacing each pixel with a function of nearby pixels

       ppmshift
              shift lines of PPM image left or right a random amount

       ppmspread
              move pixels of PPM image a random amount

       pnmconvol
              general MxN convolution on an image

       rgb3toppm
              combine three portable graymaps into one PPM

       ppmtorgb3
              separate a PPM into three portable graymaps

       pbmlife
              apply Conway's rules of Life to a PBM image

       ppmdist
              map colors to high contrast grayscales arbitrarily

       ppmntsc
              adjust colors so they are legal for NTSC or PAL television



   Image Analyzers
       These all work on the Netpbm formats as input.


       pnmfile
              describe an image's vital characteristics

       pnmpsnr
              measure difference between two images

       pgmedge
              edge-detect a PGM image

       pgmenhance
              edge-enhance a PGM image

       pgmslice
              print grayscale values for a row or column of a PGM image

       pgmtexture
              calculate textural features on a PGM image

       pgmhist
              print a histogram of the values in a PGM image

       ppmhist
              print a histogram of a PPM

       pnmhistmap
              draw a histogram of a PGM or PPM

       ppmtomap
              generate a map of all colors in an image

       ppm3d  generate a blue/green 3D glasses image from two images


   Miscellaneous
       ppmsvgalib
              display a PPM image on a Linux virtual console using Svgalib

       pbmmask
              create a mask bitmap from a regular bitmap

       ppmcolormask
              create mask of areas of a certain color in an image

       pnmsplit
              split a multi-image Netpbm file into multiple 1-image files

       pnmindex
              build a visual index of a bunch of Netpbm images

       pcdindex
              build a visual index of a photo CD from PCD overview file

       pnmmontage
              build multiple Netpbm images into a single montage image

       pgmbentley
              Bentleyize a PGM image

       pgmcrater
              create cratered terrain by fractal forgery

       pamoil turn a PNM or PAM image into an oil painting

       ppmforge
              fractal forgeries of clouds, planets, and starry skies

       pgmkernel
              generate a convolution kernel

       ppmtv  Make an image lined so it looks like an old TV

       pbmto4425
              Display PBM image on AT&T 4425 ASCII terminal with gfx chars


   Uncatalogued As Yet
       pnmtoddif

       pnmtosgi

       pnmtosir

       ppmflash

       ppmqvga

       ppmtomitsu

       ppmtopjxl

       sgitopnm

       sirtopnm

       spottopgm

       xvminitoppm

       zeisstopnm



The Netpbm Libraries
       The Netpbm programming libraries, libpbm(3), libpgm(3), libppm(3), and libpnm(3), make it easy to write  pro‐
       grams  that  manipulate graphic images.  Their main function is to read and write files in the Netpbm format,
       and because the Netpbm package contains converters for all the popular  graphics  formats,  if  your  program
       reads and writes the Netpbm formats, you can use it with any formats.

       But the libraries also contain some utility functions, such as character drawing and RGB/YCrCb conversion.

       The libraries have the conventional C linkage.  Virtually all programs in the Netpbm package are based on the
       Netpbm libraries.



   Application Notes
       As a collection of primitive tools, the power of Netpbm is multiplied by the power  of  all  the  other  unix
       tools you can use with them.  These notes remind you of some of the more useful ways to do this.  Often, when
       people want to add high level functions to the Netpbm tools, they have overlooked some existing tool that, in
       combination with Netpbm, already does it.

       Often, you need to apply some conversion or edit to a whole bunch of files.

       As a rule, Netpbm programs take one input file and produce one output file, usually on Standard Output.  This
       is for flexibility, since you so often have to pipeline many tools together.

       Here is an example of a shell command to convert all your of PNG files (named  *.png)  to  JPEG  files  named
       *.jpg:

       for i in *.png; do pngtopnm $i | ppmtojpeg >`basename $i .png`.jpg; done

       Or you might just generate a stream of individual shell commands, one per file, with awk or perl.  Here's how
       to brighten 30 YUV images that make up one second of a movie, keeping the images in the same files:

       ls *.yuv .br | perl -ne 'chomp;
       print yuvtoppm $_ | ppmbrighten -v 100 | ppmtoyuv >tmp$$.yuv; ,
       mv tmp$$.yuv $_0
       ' .br | sh

       The tools find (with the -exec option) and xargs are also useful for simple manipulation of groups of files.

       Some shells' "process substitution" facility can help where a non-Netpbm program expects you  to  identify  a
       disk  file  for  input  and  you want it to use the result of a Netpbm manipulation.  Say printcmyk takes the
       filename of a Tiff CMYK file as input and what you have is a PNG file abc.png.  Try:

       printcmyk <({ pngtopnm abc.png | pnmtotiffcmyk ; })

       It works in the other direction too, if you have a program that makes you name its output file and  you  want
       the output to go through a Netpbm tool.


   Other Graphics Software
       Netpbm contains primitive building blocks.  It certainly is not a complete graphics library.

       The  first  thing  you will need to make use of any of these tools is a viewer.  For the X inclined, there is
       xzgv.  See ftp://metalab.unc.edu/pub/Linux/apps/graphics/viewers/X.

       xloadimage and its extension xli are also common ways to display a graphic image in X.

       ImageMagick is like a visual version of Netpbm.  Using the X/Window system on Unix, you can do basic  editing
       of images and lots of format conversions.  The package does include at least some non-visual tools.  Convert,
       Mogrify, Montage, and Animate are popular programs from the ImageMagick package.  ImageMagick runs  on  Unix,
       Windows, Windows NT, Macintosh, and VMS.

       The  Gimp is a visual image editor for Unix and X, in the same category as the more famous, less capable, and
       much more expensive Adobe Photoshop, etc. for Windows.  See http://www.gimp.org.

       The file program looks at a file and tells you what kind of file it is.  It recognizes most of  the  graphics
       formats  with which Netpbm deals, so it is pretty handy for graphics work.  Netpbm's anytopnm program depends
       on file.  See ftp://ftp.astron.com/pub/file.

       The Utah Raster Toolkit serves a lot of the same purpose as Netpbm, but without the emphasis on  format  con‐
       versions.   This  package  is  based on the RLE format, which you can convert to and from the Netpbm formats.
       http://www.cs.utah.edu/research/projects/alpha1/urt.html gives some information on the Utah  Raster  Toolkit,
       but does not tell where to get it.


       There  are some Netpbm-like graphics tools distributed by the Army High Performance Computing Research Center
       at http://www.arc.umn.edu/gvl-software/media-tools.html.  These operate directly on non-Netpbm format images,
       so  they aren't included in the Netpbm package.  However, you can use them with any image format by using the
       Netpbm format converters.


       Ivtools is a suite of free X Windows drawing editors for Postscript, Tex, and  web  graphics  production,  as
       well  as  an  embeddable  and  extendable  vector  graphic  shell.   It  uses  the  Netpbm  facilities.   See
       http://www.ivtools.org.

       Ilib is a C subroutine library with functions for adding text to an image (as you might do at a higher  level
       with    pbmtext,    pnmcomp,   etc.).    It   works   with   Netpbm   input   and   output.    Find   it   at
       http://www.radix.net/~cknudsen/Ilib.  Netpbm also includes character drawing functions in the libppm library,
       but  they  do not have as fancy font capabilities (see ppmlabel for an example of use of the Netpbm character
       drawing functions).

       GD is a library of graphics routines that is part of PHP.  It has a subset of Netpbm's functions and has been
       found to resize images more slowly and with less quality.

       pnm2ppa converts to HP's "Winprinter" format (for HP 710, 720, 820, 1000, etc).  It is a superset of Netpbm's
       pbmtoppa and handles, notably, color.  However, it is more of a printer driver than a Netpbm-style  primitive
       graphics building block.  See http://sourceforge.net/project/?group_id=1322.

       The  program  morph morphs one image into another.  It uses Targa format images, but you can use tgatoppm and
       ppmtotga to deal with that format.  You have to use the graphical (X/Tk) Xmorph to create the mesh files that
       you   must   feed   to   morph.    morph   is   part   of   the  Xmorph  package.   See  http://www.colorado-
       research.com/~gourlay/software/Graphics/Xmorph.

       To create an animated GIF, or extract a frame from one, use gifsicle.  gifsicle converts between animated GIF
       and  still  GIF,  and  you  can  use  ppmtogif  and  giftopnm to connect up to all the Netpbm utilities.  See
       http://www.lcdf.org/gifsicle.

       To convert an image of text to text (optical character recongition - OCR),  use  gocr  (think  of  it  as  an
       inverse of pbmtext).  See http://altmark.nat.uni-magdeburg.de/~jschulen/ocr/.

       http://schaik.com/pngsuite  contains  a  PNG test suite -- a whole bunch of PNG images exploiting the various
       features of the PNG format.

       Another version of pnmtopng/pngtopnm is at http://www.schaik.com/png/pnmtopng.html.  The  version  in  Netpbm
       was actually based on that package a long time ago, and you can expect to find better exploitation of the PNG
       format, especially recent enhancements, in that package.  It may be a little less consistent with the  Netpbm
       project and less exploitive of recent Netpbm format enhancements, though.

       jpegtran  Does  some  of the same transformations as Netpbm is famous for, but does them specifically on JPEG
       files and does them without loss of information.  By contrast, if you were to use  Netpbm,  you  would  first
       decompress  the  JPEG image to Netpbm format, then transform the image, then compress it back to JPEG format.
       In that recompression, you lose a little image information because JPEG is  a  lossy  compression.   jpegtran
       comes with the Independent Jpeg Group's (http://www.ijg.org) JPEG library.

       Some  tools  to deal with EXIF files (see also Netpbm's jpegtopnm and pnmtojpeg): To dump (interpret) an EXIF
       header: Exifdump  ((http://topo.math.u-psud.fr/~bousch/exifdump.py)  or  Jhead  (http://www.sentex.net/~mwan‐
       del/jhead).

       A Python EXIF library and dumper:  http://pyexif.sourceforge.net.

       Latex2html  converts  Latex  document  source  to  HTML document source.  Part of that involves graphics, and
       Latex2html uses Netpbm tools for some of that.  But Latex2html through its history has had some  rather  eso‐
       teric  codependencies  with Netpbm.  Older Latex2html doesn't work with current Netpbm.  Latex2html-99.2beta8
       works, though.



   Other Graphics Formats
       People never seem to tire of inventing new graphics formats, often  completely  redundant  with  pre-existing
       ones.  Netpbm cannot keep up with them.  Here is a list of a few that we know Netpbm does not handle (yet).

         CAL  (originated by US Department Of Defense, favored by architects).  http://www.landfield.com/faqs/graph‐
       ics/fileformats-faq/part3/section-24.html

         array formats dx, general, netcdf, CDF, hdf, cm

         CGM+

         Windows Meta File (.WMF).  Libwmf converts from WMF to things like Latex, PDF, PNG.  Some of these  can  be
       input to Netpbm.

         Microsoft  Word,  RTF.  Microsoft keeps a proprietary hold on these formats.  Any software you see that can
       handle them is likely to cost money.

         DXF (AutoCAD)


HISTORY
       Netpbm has a long history, starting with Jef Poskanzer's Pbmplus package in 1988.  The file  HISTORY  in  the
       Netpbm source code contains a historical overview as well as a detailed history release by release.


AUTHOR
       Netpbm  is  based  on  the  Pbmplus package by Jef Poskanzer, first distributed in 1988 and maintained by him
       until 1991.  But the package contains work by countless other authors, added since Jef's original  work.   In
       fact,  the  name  is derived from the fact that the work was contributed by people all over the world via the
       Internet, when such collaboration was still novel enough to merit naming the package after it.

       Bryan Henderson has been maintaining Netpbm since 1999.  In addition to packaging work by others,  Bryan  has
       also written a significant amount of new material for the package.





                                                                                                           netpbm(1)
