wodim(1)                                                                                                    wodim(1)



NAME
       wodim - write data to optical disk media

SYNOPSIS
       wodim [options] track1...trackn

NOTE
       There  may  be similarities and differences between this program and other disk recording application(s). See
       the CREDITS and AUTHORS sections below to learn about the origin of wodim.


DESCRIPTION
       wodim is used to record data or audio Compact Discs on an Orange Book CD-Recorder or to write DVD media on  a
       DVD-Recorder.

       The  device  is  the  device  file  or label offered by the operating system to access the recorder with SCSI
       GENERIC (sg) interface. Note that some operating systems may provide separate device nodes for block-oriented
       and  sg  access.  For  example, on older Linux systems, the sg access was available through /dev/sg...  files
       while the block oriented access was done through associated (but not identical)  /dev/hd...   and  /dev/sr...
       (or /dev/scd...  ) files.

       In any case, the user running wodim needs read and write access to the particular device file on a Linux sys‐
       tem. It is recommended to be root or install the application as suid-root, because certain versions of  Linux
       (kernel)  limit  the  set of SCSI commands allowed for non-root users. Even if usage without root identity is
       possible in many cases, some device drivers still may fail, show unexplainable  problems  and  generally  the
       problems  become harder to debug. The risk for buffer-underruns is also increased. See the PROCESS SCHEDULING
       PRIORITY section below for more details.

       There is an alternative way of specifying the device, using the traditional  SCSI  descriptions  in  form  of
       devicetype:bus/target/lun  specification.  However,  the  success  of  this method is not guaranteed since it
       requires an adaptation scheme for your architecture, and the numbers may  vary  depending  on  the  hardware-
       internal  numbering or on the order of hot-plug device detection. If your operating system does not provide a
       sufficient framework for keeping this numbers persistent, don't rely on  them.  See  -scanbus  and  --devices
       options below for details.

       There  are  emulated  SCSI compatible device systems, using the SCSI protocols transported over various hard‐
       ware/media types. The most known examples is ATAPI ("IDE burners") or USB storage ("external USB  case").  If
       the pseudo-SCSI b/t/l device address specification is used instead of the native one, you need to prepend the
       "devicetype:" description to the emulated "bus/target/lun" device address.

       If a file /etc/wodim.conf exists, the parameter to the dev= option may also be a drive  name  label  in  that
       file (see FILES section).

       As  a special exception, the device specification can be -1 or just omitted, which invokes automatic guessing
       of an appropriate device for the selected operation. However, this guessing is not available  everywhere  and
       is not reliable; it is only available for the user's convenience in simple environments.

       In  Track  At  Once  mode,  each  track corresponds to a single file that contains the prepared data for that
       track.  If the argument is `-', standard input is used for that track.  Only one  track  may  be  taken  from
       stdin.   In the other write modes, the direct file to track relation may not be implemented.  In -clone mode,
       a single file contains all data for the whole disk.  To allow DVD writing on platforms that do not  implement
       large file support, wodim concatenates all file arguments to a single track when writing to DVD media.


PROCESS SCHEDULING PRIORITY
       Wodim  tries  to  get  higher  process  priority  using different methods. This is important because the burn
       process is usually a realtime task, no long  delays  should  occur  while  transmitting  fresh  data  to  the
       recorder.  This  is especially important on systems with insufficient RAM where swapping can create delays of
       many seconds.

       A possible workaround on underpowered systems is the use of the burnfree or  similar  feature,  allowing  the
       recorder to resume.

       Root permissions are usually required to get higher process scheduling priority.

       On SVr4 compliant systems, wodim uses the real time class to get the highest scheduling priority that is pos‐
       sible (higher than all kernel processes).  On systems with POSIX real time scheduling wodim  uses  real  time
       scheduling too, but may not be able to gain a priority that is higher than all kernel processes.

       In  order  to  be able to use the SCSI transport subsystem of the OS, run at highest priority and lock itself
       into core wodim either needs to be run as root, needs to be installed suid root or must be called  via  RBACs
       pfexec mechanism.


GENERAL OPTIONS
       General options must be before any track file name or track option.

       -version
              Print version information and exit.

       -v     Increment  the  level  of  general verbosity by one.  This is used e.g. to display the progress of the
              writing process.

       -V     Increment the verbose level in respect of SCSI command transport by one.  This helps to debug problems
              during the writing process, that occur in the CD/DVD-Recorder.  If you get incomprehensible error mes‐
              sages you should use this flag to get more detailed output.  -VV will  show  data  buffer  content  in
              addition.  Using -V or -VV slows down the process and may be the reason for a buffer underrun.

       debug=#, -d
              Set  the  misc  debug value to # (with debug=#) or increment the misc debug level by one (with -d). If
              you specify -dd, this equals to debug=2.  This may help to find problems while opening  a  driver  for
              libusal as well as with sector sizes and sector types.  Using -debug slows down the process and may be
              the reason for a buffer underrun.

       kdebug=#, kd=#
              Tell the usal-driver to modify the kernel debug value while SCSI commands are running.

       -silent, -s
              Do not print out a status report for failed SCSI commands.

       -force Force to continue on some errors. Be careful when using this option.  wodim implements several  checks
              that  prevent you from doing unwanted things like damaging CD-RW media by improper drives. Many of the
              sanity checks are disabled when the -force option is used.

              This option also implements some tricks that will allow you to blank bad CD-RW disks.

       -immed Tell wodim to set the SCSI IMMED flag  in  certain  commands  (load/eject/blank/close_track/close_ses‐
              sion).   This can be useful on broken systems with ATAPI harddisk and CD/DVD writer on the same bus or
              with SCSI systems that don't use disconnect/reconnect.  These systems will freeze  while  blanking  or
              fixating  a  CD/DVD  or  while a DVD writer is filling up a session to the minimum amount (approx. 800
              MB).  Setting the -immed flag will request the command to return immediately while the operation  pro‐
              ceeds in background, making the bus usable for the other devices and avoiding the system freeze.  This
              is an experimental feature which may work or not, depending on the model of the CD/DVD writer.  A cor‐
              rect  solution  would  be  to set up a correct cabling but there seem to be notebooks around that have
              been set up the wrong way by the manufacturer.  As it is impossible to fix this problem in  notebooks,
              the -immed option has been added.

              A  second  experimental  feature  of the -immed flag is to tell wodim to try to wait short times while
              writing to the media. This is expected to free the IDE bus if the CD/DVD writer and  the  data  source
              are connected to the same IDE cable. In this case, the CD/DVD writer would otherwise usually block the
              IDE bus for nearly all the time making it impossible to fetch data from the  source  drive.  See  also
              minbuf= and -v option.

              Use  both  features  at  your  own  risk.  If it turns out that it would make sense to have a separate
              option for the wait feature, write to the author and convince him.

       minbuf=value
              The # minbuf= option allows to define the minimum drive buffer fill ratio for the  experimental  ATAPI
              wait  mode that is intended to free the IDE bus to allow hard disk and CD/DVD writer to be on the same
              IDE cable.  As the wait mode currently only works when the verbose option -v has been specified, wodim
              implies the verbose option in case the -immed or minbuf= option have been specified.  Valid values for
              minbuf= are between 25 and 95 for 25%...95% minimum drive buffer fill ratio.

       -dummy The CD/DVD-Recorder will go through all steps of the recording process, but the laser  is  turned  off
              during  this  procedure.   It is recommended to run several tests before actually writing to a Compact
              Disk or Digital Versatile Disk, if the timing and load response of the system is not known.

       -clone Tells wodim to handle images created by readom -clone.  The -clone may only  be  used  in  conjunction
              with  with  the -raw96r or with the -raw16 option.  Using -clone together with -raw96r is preferred as
              it allows to write all subchannel data.  The option -raw16 should only be used with drives that do not
              support to write in -raw96r mode.

       -dao

       -sao   Set  SAO  (Session At Once) mode which is usually called Disk At Once mode.  This currently only works
              with MMC drives that support Session At Once mode.  Note that wodim needs to know  the  size  of  each
              track  in  advance  for this mode (see the genisoimage -print-size option and the EXAMPLES section for
              more information).

       -tao   Set TAO (Track At Once) writing mode.  This is the default write  mode  in  previous  wodim  versions.
              With most drives, this write mode is required for multi session recording.

       -raw   Set  RAW writing mode.  Using this option defaults to -raw96r.  Note that wodim needs to know the size
              of each track in advance for this mode (see the genisoimage -print-size option and the  EXAMPLES  sec‐
              tion for more information).

       -raw96r
              Select  Set RAW writing mode with 2352 byte sectors plus 96 bytes of raw P-W subchannel data resulting
              in a sector size of 2448 bytes.  This is the preferred raw writing mode as it gives best control  over
              the  CD  writing process.  If you find any problems with the layout of a disk or with sub channel con‐
              tent (e.g. wrong times on the display when playing the CD) and your drive supports to write in -raw96r
              or  -raw16  mode, you should give it a try. There are several CD writers with bad firmware that result
              in broken disks when writing in TAO or SAO mode.  Writing data disks in raw mode  needs  significantly
              more  CPU  time  than other write modes. If your CPU is too slow, this may result in buffer underruns.
              Note that wodim needs to know the size of each track in advance for this  mode  (see  the  genisoimage
              -print-size option and the EXAMPLES section for more information).

       -raw96p
              Select Set RAW writing mode with 2352 byte sectors plus 96 bytes of packed P-W subchannel data result‐
              ing in a sector size of 2448 bytes.  This is the less  preferred  raw  writing  mode  as  only  a  few
              recorders  support it and some of these recorders have bugs in the firmware implementation.  Don't use
              this mode if your recorder supports -raw96r or -raw16.  Writing data disks in raw mode needs  signifi‐
              cantly more CPU time than other write modes. If your CPU is too slow, this may result in buffer under‐
              runs.  Note that wodim needs to know the size of  each  track  in  advance  for  this  mode  (see  the
              genisoimage -print-size option and the EXAMPLES section for more information).

       -raw16 Select Set RAW writing mode with 2352 byte sectors plus 16 bytes of P-Q subchannel data resulting in a
              sector size of 2368 bytes.  If a recorder does not support -raw96r, this is the preferred raw  writing
              mode.   It does not allow to write CD-Text or CD+Graphics but it is the only raw writing mode in cheap
              CD writers.  As these cheap writers in most cases do not support -dao mode.  Don't use  this  mode  if
              your recorder supports -raw96r.  Writing data disks in raw mode needs significantly more CPU time than
              other write modes. If your CPU is too slow, this may result in  buffer  underruns.   Note  that  wodim
              needs  to know the size of each track in advance for this mode (see the genisoimage -print-size option
              and the EXAMPLES section for more information).

       -multi Allow multi session CDs to be made. This flag needs to be present on all sessions of a  multi  session
              disk,  except  you  want to create a session that will be the last session on the media.  The fixation
              will be done in a way that allows the CD/DVD-Recorder to append additional  sessions  later.  This  is
              done by generation a TOC with a link to the next program area. The so generated media is not 100% com‐
              patible to manufactured CDs (except for CDplus).  Use only for recording of  multi  session  CDs.   If
              this  option is present, the default track type is CD-ROM XA mode 2 form 1 and the sector size is 2048
              bytes.  The XA sector subheaders will be created by the drive.  The Sony drives have no hardware  sup‐
              port  for CD-ROM XA mode 2 form 1.  You have to specify the -data option in order to create multi ses‐
              sion disks on these drives.  As long as wodim does not have a coder for  converting  data  sectors  to
              audio  sectors, you need to force CD-ROM sectors by including the -data option if you like to record a
              multisession disk in SAO mode.  Not all drives allow multisession CDs in SAO mode.

       -msinfo
              Retrieve multi session info in a form suitable for genisoimage and print it to  standard  output.  See
              msifile= option for another version.

              This  option  makes  only  sense with a CD that contains at least one closed session and is appendable
              (not finally closed yet).  Some drives create error messages if you try to get the multi session  info
              for a disk that is not suitable for this operation.

       msifile=filename
              Like -msinfo option but also stores the multi session info in a file.

       -toc   Retrieve  and  print  out the table of content or PMA of a CD.  With this option, wodim will work with
              CD-R drives and with CD-ROM drives.

       -atip  Retrieve and print out the ATIP (absolute Time in Pre-groove) info of a CD/DVD  recordable  or  CD/DVD
              re-writable  media.   With  this option, wodim will try to retrieve the ATIP info. If the actual drive
              does not support to read the ATIP info, it may be that only a reduced set of  information  records  or
              even  nothing  is  displayed.  Only  a limited number of MMC compliant drives support to read the ATIP
              info.

              If wodim is able to retrieve the lead-in start time for the first session, it will try to  decode  and
              print  the  manufacturer  info  from the media.  DVD media does not have ATIP information but there is
              equivalent prerecorded information that is read out and printed.

       -fix   The disk will only be fixated (i.e. a TOC for a CD-Reader will be written).  This may be used, if  for
              some  reason  the  disk has been written but not fixated. This option currently does not work with old
              TEAC drives (CD-R50S and CD-R55S).

       -nofix Do not fixate the disk after writing the tracks. This may be used to create an audio disk in steps. An
              un-fixated  disk  can usually not be used on a non CD-writer type drive but there are audio CD players
              that will be able to play such a disk.

       -waiti Wait for input to become available on standard input before trying  to  open  the  SCSI  driver.  This
              allows  wodim  to  read its input from a pipe even when writing additional sessions to a multi session
              disk.  When writing another session to a multi session disk, genisoimage needs to read the old session
              from the device before writing output.  This cannot be done if wodim opens the SCSI driver at the same
              time.

       -load  Load the media and exit. This only works with a tray loading mechanism but seems  to  be  useful  when
              using the Kodak disk transporter.

       -lock  Load  the media, lock the door and exit. This only works with a tray loading mechanism but seems to be
              useful when using the Kodak disk transporter.

       -eject Eject disk after doing the work.  Some devices (e.g. Philips) need to eject the medium before creating
              a new disk. Doing a -dummy test and immediately creating a real disk would not work on these devices.

       speed=#
              Set  the  speed  factor  of the writing process to #.  # is an integer, representing a multiple of the
              audio speed.  This is about 150 KB/s for CD-ROM, about 172 KB/s for CD-Audio and about  1385 kB/s  for
              DVD media.  If no speed option is present, wodim will try to get a drive specific speed value from the
              file /etc/wodim.conf and if it cannot find one, it will try to get the speed value from the  CDR_SPEED
              environment and later from the CDR_SPEED= entry in /etc/wodim.conf.  If no speed value could be found,
              wodim uses a drive specific default speed.  The default for all new (MMC compliant) drives is  to  use
              the  maximum supported by the drive.  If you use speed=0 with a MMC compliant drive, wodim will switch
              to the lowest possible speed for drive and medium.  If you are using an old (non MMC) drive  that  has
              problems with speed=2 or speed=4, you should try speed=0.

       blank=type
              Blank a CD-RW and exit or blank a CD-RW before writing. The blanking type may be one of:

              help        Display a list of possible blanking types.

              all         Blank the entire disk. This may take a long time.

              fast        Minimally blank the disk. This results in erasing the PMA, the TOC and the pregap.

              track       Blank a track.

              unreserve   Unreserve a reserved track.

              trtail      Blank the tail of a track.

              unclose     Unclose last session.

              session     Blank the last session.
       Not  all  drives support all blanking types. It may be necessary to use blank=all if a drive reports a speci‐
       fied command as being invalid.  If used together with the -force flag, this option may be used to blank CD-RW
       disks  that otherwise cannot be blanked. Note that you may need to specify blank=all because some drives will
       not continue with certain types of bad CD-RW disks. Note also that wodim does its best if the -force flag  is
       used but it finally depends on the drive's firmware whether the blanking operation will succeed or not.

       -format
              Format  a  CD-RW/DVD-RW/DVD+RW  disc.   Formatting  is currently only implemented for DVD+RW media.  A
              'maiden' DVD+RW media needs to be formatted before you may write to it.  However, as wodim autodetects
              the need for formatting in this case and auto formats the medium before it starts writing, the -format
              option is only needed if you like to forcibly reformat a DVD+RW medium.

       fs=#   Set the FIFO (ring buffer) size to #.  You may use the same syntax as in  dd(1),  sdd(1)  or  star(1).
              The  number  representing  the size is taken in bytes unless otherwise specified.  If a number is fol‐
              lowed directly by the letter `b', `k', `m',  `s'  or  `f',  the  size  is  multiplied  by  512,  1024,
              1024*1024,  2048  or 2352.  If the size consists of numbers separated by `x' or `*', multiplication of
              the two numbers is performed.  Thus fs=10x63k will specify a FIFO size of 630 kBytes.

              The size specified by the fs= argument includes the shared memory that is needed  for  administration.
              This is at least one page of memory.  If no fs= option is present, wodim will try to get the FIFO size
              value from the CDR_FIFOSIZE environment.  The default FIFO size is currently 4 MB.

              The FIFO is used to increase buffering for the real time writing process.  It allows  to  run  a  pipe
              from genisoimage directly into wodim.  If the FIFO is active and a pipe from genisoimage into wodim is
              used to create a CD, wodim will abort prior to do any modifications on the disk  if  genisoimage  dies
              before it starts writing.  The recommended FIFO size is between 4 and 128 MBytes.  As a rule of thumb,
              the FIFO size should be at least equal to the size of the internal buffer of the  CD/DVD-Recorder  and
              no  more  than  half  of the physical amount of RAM available in the machine.  If the FIFO size is big
              enough, the FIFO statistics will print a FIFO empty count of zero and the FIFO min fill is  not  below
              20%.  It is not wise to use too much space for the FIFO. If you need more than 8 MB to write a CD at a
              speed less than 20x from an image on a local file system on an idle machine, your  machine  is  either
              underpowered,  has hardware problems or is mis-configured.  If you like to write DVDs or CDs at higher
              speed, it makes sense to use at least 16 MB for the FIFO.

              On old and small machines, you need to be more careful with the FIFO size.  If your machine  has  less
              than  256 MB  of  physical  RAM, you should not set up a FIFO size that is more than 32 MB.  The sun4c
              architecture (e.g. a Sparcstation-2) has only MMU page table entries for 16 MBytes per process.  Using
              more  than  14 MBytes  for  the FIFO may cause the operating system in this case to spend much time to
              constantly reload the MMU tables. Newer machines from Sun do not have this  MMU  hardware  problem.  I
              have no information on PC-hardware reflecting this problem.

              Old  Linux  systems for non x86 platforms have broken definitions for the shared memory size. You need
              to fix them and rebuild the kernel or manually tell wodim to use a smaller FIFO.

              If you have buffer underruns or similar problems (like a constantly empty drive buffer) and observe  a
              zero fifo empty count, you have hardware problems that prevents the data from flowing fast enough from
              the kernel memory to the drive. The FIFO size in this case is sufficient, but you should check  for  a
              working DMA setup.

       ts=#   Set  the  maximum  transfer size for a single SCSI command to #.  The syntax for the ts= option is the
              same as for wodim fs=# or sdd bs=#.

              If no ts= option has been specified, wodim defaults to a transfer size of 63 kB. If libusal gets lower
              values  from the operating system, the value is reduced to the maximum value that is possible with the
              current operating system.  Sometimes, it may help to further reduce the transfer size  or  to  enhance
              it, but note that it may take a long time to find a better value by experimenting with the ts= option.

       dev=target
              Sets  the  SCSI  target  for  the CD/DVD-Recorder, see notes above.  A typical device specification is
              dev=6,0 .  A filename or virtual device name can be passed instead of the symbolic SCSI numbers.   The
              correct device/filename in this case can be found in the system specific manuals of the target operat‐
              ing system.  On a FreeBSD system without CAM support,  you  need  to  use  the  control  device  (e.g.
              /dev/rcd0.ctl).  A correct device specification in this case may be dev=/dev/rcd0.ctl:@ .

              On  Linux  and  Windows  2000/XP, drives are accessible with their device (or drive) names or with the
              symbolic SCSI numbers (not recommended, mapping is not stable and could be completely removed  in  the
              future).

              If no dev option is present, wodim will try to get the device from the CDR_DEVICE environment.

              If  the argument to the dev= option does not contain the characters ',', '/', '@' or ':', it is inter‐
              preted as an label name that may be found in the file /etc/wodim.conf (see FILES section).

       gracetime=#
              Set the grace time before starting to write to # seconds.  Values below 2 seconds are not  recommended
              to give the kernel or volume management a chance to learn the new state.

       timeout=#
              Set the default SCSI command timeout value to # seconds.  The default SCSI command timeout is the min‐
              imum timeout used for sending SCSI commands.  If a SCSI command fails due to a timeout, you may try to
              raise  the default SCSI command timeout above the timeout value of the failed command.  If the command
              runs correctly with a raised command timeout, please report the better timeout value  and  the  corre‐
              sponding  command to the author of the program.  If no timeout option is present, a default timeout of
              40 seconds is used.

       driver=name
              Allows the user to manually select a driver for the device.  The  reason  for  the  existence  of  the
              driver=name option is to allow users to use wodim with drives that are similar to supported drives but
              not known directly by wodim.  All drives made after 1997 should be MMC  standard  compliant  and  thus
              supported  by  one  of  the  MMC  drivers.  It is most unlikely that wodim is unable to find the right
              driver automatically.  Use this option with extreme care. If a wrong driver is used for a device,  the
              possibility  of  creating  corrupted  disks is high.  The minimum problem related to a wrong driver is
              that the speed= or -dummy will not work.

              The following driver names are supported:

              help   To get a list of possible drivers together with a short description.

              mmc_cd The generic SCSI-3/mmc CD-ROM driver is auto-selected whenever  wodim  finds  a  MMC  compliant
                     drive  that does not identify itself to support writing at all, or that only identifies to sup‐
                     port media or write modes not implemented in wodim.

              mmc_cd_dvd
                     The generic SCSI-3/mmc CD/DVD driver is auto-selected whenever wodim finds  a  MMC-2  or  MMC-3
                     compliant  drive  that  seems  to  support more than one medium type and the tray is open or no
                     medium could be found to select the right driver.  This driver tries to close the tray,  checks
                     the medium found in the tray and then branches to the driver that matches the current medium.

              mmc_cdr
                     The  generic  SCSI-3/mmc CD-R/CD-RW driver is auto-selected whenever wodim find a MMC compliant
                     drive that only supports to write CDs or a multi system drive that contains a CD as the current
                     medium.

              mmc_cdr_sony
                     The generic SCSI-3/mmc CD-R/CD-RW driver is auto-selected whenever wodim would otherwise select
                     the mmc_cdr driver but the device seems to be made by Sony.   The  mmc_cdr_sony  is  definitely
                     needed  for  the  Sony CDU 928 as this drive does not completely implement the MMC standard and
                     some of the MMC SCSI commands have to be replaced by Sony proprietary commands. It  seems  that
                     all  Sony drives (even newer ones) still implement the Sony proprietary SCSI commands so it has
                     not yet become a problem to use this driver for all Sony drives. If you find a newer Sony drive
                     that does not work with this driver, please report.

              mmc_dvd
                     The  generic  SCSI-3/mmc-2 DVD-R/DVD-RW driver is auto-selected whenever wodim finds a MMC-2 or
                     MMC-3 compliant drive that supports to write DVDs and an appropriate medium is  loaded.   There
                     is no Track At Once mode for DVD writers.

              mmc_dvdplus
                     The  generic  SCSI-3/mmc-3  DVD+R/DVD+RW driver is auto-selected whenever one of the DVD+ media
                     types that are incompatible to each other is found.  It checks media and then branches  to  the
                     driver that matches the current medium.

              mmc_dvdplusr
                     The  generic  SCSI-3/mmc-3 DVD+R driver is auto-selected whenever a DVD+R medium is found in an
                     appropriate writer.  Note that for unknown reason, the DVD-Plus alliance  does  not  like  that
                     there  is a simulation mode for DVD+R media.  The author of wodim tries to convince manufactur‐
                     ers to implement a simulation mode for DVD+R and implement support.  DVD+R  only  supports  one
                     write mode that is somewhere between Track At Once and Packet writing; this mode is selected in
                     wodim via a the -dao/-sao option.

              mmc_dvdplusrw
                     The generic SCSI-3/mmc-3 DVD+RW driver is auto-selected whenever a DVD+RW medium is found in an
                     appropriate  writer.   As  DVD+RW media needs to be formatted before its first use, wodim auto-
                     detects this media state and performs a format before  it  starts  to  write.   Note  that  for
                     unknown  reason,  the DVD-Plus alliance does not like that there is a simulation mode nor a way
                     to erase DVD+RW media.  DVD+RW only supports one write mode that is close  to  Packet  writing;
                     this mode is selected in wodim via a the -dao/-sao option.

              cw_7501
                     The  driver for Matsushita/Panasonic CW-7501 is auto-selected when wodim finds this old pre MMC
                     drive.  wodim supports all write modes for this drive type.

              kodak_pcd_600
                     The driver for Kodak PCD-600 is auto-selected when wodim finds this old pre MMC drive which has
                     been  the  first  high  speed (6x) CD writer for a long time. This drive behaves similar to the
                     Philips CDD-521 drive.

              philips_cdd521
                     The driver for Philips CDD-521 is auto-selected when wodim finds a Philips CDD-521 drive (which
                     is  the  first CD writer ever made) or one of the other drives that are known to behave similar
                     to this drive.  All Philips CDD-521 or similar drives (see other drivers in this list)  do  not
                     support Session At Once recording.

              philips_cdd521_old
                     The  driver  for  Philips  old CDD-521 is auto-selected when wodim finds a Philips CDD-521 with
                     very old firmware which has some known limitations.

              philips_cdd522
                     The driver for Philips CDD-522 is auto-selected when wodim finds a Philips CDD-522 which is the
                     successor  of  the 521 or one of its variants with Kodak label.  wodim does not support Session
                     At Once recording with these drives.

              philips_dumb
                     The driver for Philips CDD-521 with pessimistic assumptions is never auto-selected.  It may  be
                     used by hand with drives that behave similar to the Philips CDD-521.

              pioneer_dws114x
                     The  driver  for  Pioneer  DW-S114X is auto-selected when wodim finds one of the old non MMC CD
                     writers from Pioneer.

              plasmon_rf4100
                     The driver for Plasmon RF 4100 is auto-selected when wodim finds this specific variant  of  the
                     Philips CDD-521.

              ricoh_ro1060c
                     The  driver  for  Ricoh RO-1060C is auto-selected when wodim finds this drive. There is no real
                     support for this drive yet.

              ricoh_ro1420c
                     The driver for Ricoh RO-1420C is auto-selected when wodim finds  a  drive  with  this  specific
                     variant of the Philips CDD-521 command set.

              scsi2_cd
                     The  generic  SCSI-2  CD-ROM  driver is auto-selected whenever wodim finds a pre MMC drive that
                     does not support writing or a pre MMC writer that is not supported by wodim.

              sony_cdu924
                     The driver for Sony CDU-924 / CDU-948 is auto-selected whenever wodim finds one of the old  pre
                     MMC CD writers from Sony.

              teac_cdr50
                     The  driver  for  Teac  CD-R50S, Teac CD-R55S, JVC XR-W2010, Pinnacle RCD-5020 is auto-selected
                     whenever one of the drives is found that is known to the non MMC command set used by  TEAC  and
                     JVC.   Note that many drives from JVC will not work because they do not correctly implement the
                     documented command set and JVC has been unwilling to fix or document the  bugs.   There  is  no
                     support for the Session At Once write mode yet.

              tyuden_ew50
                     The  driver  for Taiyo Yuden EW-50 is auto-selected when wodim finds a drive with this specific
                     variant of the Philips CDD-521 command set.

              yamaha_cdr100
                     The driver for Yamaha CDR-100 / CDR-102 is auto-selected when wodim finds one of  the  old  pre
                     MMC CD writers from Yamaha.  There is no support for the Session At Once write mode yet.

              cdr_simul
                     The  simulation CD-R driver allows to run timing and speed tests with parameters that match the
                     behavior of CD writers.

              dvd_simul
                     The simulation DVD-R driver allows to run timing and speed tests with parameters that match the
                     behavior of DVD writers.

              There  are  two special driver entries in the list: cdr_simul and dvd_simul.  These driver entries are
              designed to make timing tests at any speed or timing tests for drives that do not support  the  -dummy
              option.   The  simulation drivers implement a drive with a buffer size of 1 MB that can be changed via
              the CDR_SIMUL_BUFSIZE environment variable.  The simulation driver correctly simulates even  a  buffer
              underrun  condition.  If the -dummy option is present, the simulation is not aborted in case of a buf‐
              fer underrun.

       driveropts=option list
              Set driver specific options. The options are specified a comma separated list.  To get a list of valid
              options  use  driveropts=help together with the -checkdrive option.  If you like to set driver options
              without running a typical wodim task, you need to use the -setdropts option in addition, otherwise the
              command line parser in wodim will complain.  Currently implemented driver options are:

              burnfree
                     Turn  the support for Buffer Underrun Free writing on.  This only works for drives that support
                     Buffer Underrun Free technology, which is available on most drives manufactured in this millen‐
                     nium.  This may be called: Sanyo BURN-Proof, Ricoh Just-Link, Yamaha Lossless-Link or similar.

                     This  option is deprecated and is mentioned here for documentation purposes only. The BURN-Free
                     feature is enabled by default if the drive supports it.  However, use of  BURN-Free  may  cause
                     decreased  burning  quality. Therefore it can be useful to disable it for certain purposes, eg.
                     when creating a master copy for mass CD production.

              noburnfree
                     Turn the support for Buffer Underrun Free writing off.

              varirec=value
                     Turn on the Plextor VariRec writing mode. The mandatory parameter value is the laser power off‐
                     set and currently may be selected from -2, -1, 0, 1, 2.  In addition, you need to set the write
                     speed to 4 in order to allow VariRec to work.

              gigarec=value
                     Manage the Plextor GigaRec writing mode. The mandatory parameter value  is  the  disk  capacity
                     ratio  compared to normal recording and currently may be selected from 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 1.0, 1.2,
                     1.3, 1.4.  If values < 1.0 are used, then the effect is similar to the Yamaha Audio  Master  Q.
                     R.  feature. If values > 1.0 are used, then the disk capacity is increased.

                     Not  all  drives  support all GigaRec values.  When a drive uses the GigaRec feature, the write
                     speed is limited to 8x.

              audiomaster
                     Turn on the Yamaha Audio Master Q. R.  feature which usually should result in high quality  CDs
                     that  have  less reading problems in Hi-Fi players.  As this is implemented as a variant of the
                     Session at Once write mode, it will only work if you select SAO write mode and there is no need
                     to turn it off.  The Audio Master mode will work with a limited speed but may also be used with
                     data CDs. In Audio Master mode, the pits on the CD will be written larger  then  usual  so  the
                     capacity  of the medium is reduced when turning this feature on.  A 74 minute CD will only have
                     a capacity of 63 minutes if Audio Master is active and the capacity of a 80 minute CD  will  be
                     reduced to 68 minutes.

              forcespeed
                     Normally,  modern drives know the highest possible speed for different media and may reduce the
                     speed in order to grant best write quality.  This technology may be called:  Plextor  PowerRec,
                     Ricoh  Just-Speed,  Yamaha  Optimum Write Speed Control or similar.  Some drives (e.g. Plextor,
                     Ricoh and Yamaha) allow to force the drive to use the selected speed even if the medium  is  so
                     bad  that  the  write quality would be poor. This option tells such a drive to force to use the
                     selected speed regardless of the medium quality.

                     Use this option with extreme care and note that the drive should know better which medium  will
                     work  at  full speed.  The default is to turn forcespeed off, regardless of the defaults of the
                     drive.

              noforcespeed
                     Turn off the force speed feature.

              speedread
                     Some ultra high speed drives such as 48x and faster drives from Plextor limit  the  read  speed
                     for  unknown  media  to e.g. 40x in order to avoid damaged disks and drives.  Using this option
                     tells the drive to read any media as fast as possible.  Be very careful as this may  cause  the
                     media to break in the drive while reading, resulting in a damaged media and drive!

              nospeedread
                     Turn off unlimited read speed.

              singlesession
                     Turn  the drive into a single session only drive.  This allows to read defective or non-compli‐
                     ant (illegal) media with extremely non-standard additional (broken/illegal) TOC entries in  the
                     TOC  from  the second or higher session. Some of these disks become usable if only the informa‐
                     tion from the first session is used.  You need to enable Single Session mode before you  insert
                     the defective disk!

              nosinglesession
                     Turn off single session mode. The drive will again behave as usual.

              hidecdr
                     Hide  the fact that a medium might be a recordable medium.  This allows to make CD-Rs look like
                     CD-ROMs and applications believe that the media in the drive is not a CD-R.

              nohidecdr
                     Turn off hiding CD-R media.

              tattooinfo
                     Use this option together with -checkdrive to retrieve the image size information for the Yamaha
                     DiskT@2  feature. The images always have a line length of 3744 pixel.  Line number 0 (radius 0)
                     is mapped to the center of the disk.  If you know the inner and outer radius you will  be  able
                     to create a pre distorted image that later may appear undistorted on the disk.

              tattoofile=name
                     Use  this  option  together  with -checkdrive to write an image prepared for the Yamaha DiskT@2
                     feature to the medium.  The file must be a file with raw image B&W data (one byte per pixel) in
                     a  size  as  retrieved by a previous call to tattoofile=name .  If the size of the image equals
                     the maximum possible size (3744 x 320 pixel), wodim will use the first part of the  file.  This
                     first part then will be written to the leftover space on the CD.

                     Note that the image must be mirrored to be readable from the pick up side of the CD.

       -setdropts
              Set  the driveropts specified by driveropts=option list, the speed of the drive and the dummy flag and
              exit.  This allows wodim to set drive specific parameters that are not directly  used  by  wodim  like
              e.g.   single  session  mode,  hide cdr and similar.  It is needed in case that driveropts=option list
              should be called without planning to run a typical wodim task.

       -checkdrive
              Checks if a driver for the current drive is present and exit.  If the drive is a  known  drive,  wodim
              uses exit code 0.

       -prcap Print  the  drive capabilities for SCSI-3/mmc compliant drives as obtained from mode page 0x2A. Values
              marked with kB use 1000 bytes as kilo-byte, values marked with KB use 1024 bytes as Kilo-byte.

       -inq   Do an inquiry for the drive, print the inquiry info and exit.

       -scanbus
              Scan all SCSI devices on all SCSI busses and print the inquiry strings. This option  may  be  used  to
              find  SCSI  address  of the CD/DVD-Recorder on a system. If some device types are invisible, try using
              dev=ATA: or similar option to give a hint about the device type you  are  looking  for.   The  numbers
              printed  out  as  labels are computed by: bus * 100 + target.  On platforms and device systems without
              persistent SCSI number management the results are not reliable. Use the .B --devices option instead.

       --devices
              Look for useable devices using the system specific functions, eg. probing with usual device  nodes  in
              /dev/*, and display the detections using symbolic device names in OS specific syntax.

       -reset Try to reset the SCSI bus where the CD recorder is located. This works not on all operating systems.

       -abort Try  to  send an abort sequence to the drive.  If you use wodim only, this should never be needed; but
              other software may leave a drive in an unusable condition.  Calling wodim -reset may be  needed  if  a
              previous  write has been interrupted and the software did not tell the drive that it will not continue
              to write.

       -overburn
              Allow wodim to write more than the official size of a medium. This feature is usually called overburn‐
              ing  and  depends on the fact that most blank media may hold more space than the official size. As the
              official size of the lead-out area on the disk is 90 seconds (6750 sectors) and a disk  usually  works
              if  there  are  at  least  150 sectors of lead out, all media may be overburned by at least 88 seconds
              (6600 sectors).  Most CD recorders only do overburning in SAO or RAW mode. Known exceptions  are  TEAC
              CD-R50S,  TEAC CD-R55S and the Panasonic CW-7502.  Some drives do not allow to overburn as much as you
              might like and limit the size of a CD to e.g. 76 minutes. This problem may be circumvented by  writing
              the  CD in RAW mode because this way the drive has no chance to find the size before starting to burn.
              There is no guarantee that your drive supports overburning at all.  Make a test to check if your drive
              implements the feature.

       -ignsize
              Ignore  the known size of the medium. This option should be used with extreme care, it exists only for
              debugging purposes don't use it for other reasons.  It is not needed to write disks with more than the
              nominal capacity.  This option implies -overburn.

       -useinfo
              Use  *.inf  files  to overwrite audio options.  If this option is used, the pregap size information is
              read from the *.inf file that is associated with the file that contains the audio data for a track.

              If used together with the -audio option, wodim may be used to write audio CDs from a pipe from  icedax
              if  you  call  wodim  with  the *.inf files as track parameter list instead of using audio files.  The
              audio data is read from stdin in this case.  See EXAMPLES section below.  wodim  first  verifies  that
              stdin is not connected to a terminal and runs some heuristic consistency checks on the *.inf files and
              then sets the track lengths from the information in the *.inf files.

              If you like to write from stdin, make sure that wodim is called with a large enough FIFO size,  reduce
              the  write  speed  to a value below the read speed of the source drive and switch the burn-free option
              for the recording drive on.

       defpregap=#
              Set the default pre-gap size for all tracks except track number 1.  This option currently  only  makes
              sense  with  the TEAC drive when creating track-at-once disks without the 2 second silence before each
              track.
              This option may go away in future.

       -packet
              Set Packet writing mode.  This is an experimental interface.

       pktsize=#
              Set the packet size to #, forces fixed packet mode.  This is an experimental interface.

       -noclose
              Do not close the current track, useful only when in packet writing  mode.   This  is  an  experimental
              interface.

       mcn=med_cat_nr
              Set the Media Catalog Number of the CD to med_cat_nr.

       -text  Write  CD-Text  information based on information taken from a file that contains ascii information for
              the text strings.  wodim supports CD-Text information based on the content of the *.inf files  created
              by  icedax  and  CD-Text  information based on the content from a CUE sheet file.  If a CUE sheet file
              contains both (binary CDTEXTFILE and text based SONGWRITER) entries, then the information based on the
              CDTEXTFILE entry will win.

              You need to use the -useinfo option in addition in order to tell wodim to read the *.inf files or cue‐
              file=filename in order to tell wodim to read a CUE sheet file in addition.  If you like to write  your
              own  CD-Text information, edit the *.inf files or the CUE sheet file with a text editor and change the
              fields that are relevant for CD-Text.

       textfile=filename
              Write CD-Text based on information found in the binary file filename.  This file must contain informa‐
              tion  in  a  data  format defined in the SCSI-3 MMC-2 standard and in the Red Book. The four byte size
              header that is defined in the SCSI standard is optional and allows to make the recognition of  correct
              data  less  ambiguous.  This is the best option to be used to copy CD-Text data from existing CDs that
              already carry CD-Text information. To get data in a format suitable for this option use wodim -vv -toc
              to  extract  the information from disk.  If both, textfile=filename and CD-Text information from *.inf
              or *.cue files are present, textfile=filename will overwrite the other information.

       cuefile=filename
              Take all recording related information from a CDRWIN compliant CUE sheet file.   No  track  files  are
              allowed when this option is present and the option -dao is currently needed in addition.


TRACK OPTIONS
       Track options may be mixed with track file names.

       isrc=ISRC_number
              Set the International Standard Recording Number for the next track to ISRC_number.

       index=list
              Sets  an  index  list for the next track.  In index list is a comma separated list of numbers that are
              counting from index 1. The first entry in this list must contain a 0, the following numbers must be an
              ascending list of numbers (counting in 1/75 seconds) that represent the start of the indices. An index
              list in the form: 0,7500,15000 sets index 1 to the start of the track, index 2 100  seconds  from  the
              start of the track and index 3 200 seconds from the start of the track.

       -audio If  this  flag is present, all subsequent tracks are written in CD-DA (similar to Red Book) audio for‐
              mat.  The file with data for this tracks should contain stereo, 16-bit digital audio with  44100  sam‐
              ples/s.   The  byte  order should be the following: MSB left, LSB left, MSB right, LSB right, MSB left
              and so on. The track should be a multiple of 2352 bytes. It is not possible to put the master image of
              an  audio track on a raw disk because data will be read in multiple of 2352 bytes during the recording
              process.

              If a filename ends in .au or .wav the file is considered to be a structured audio  data  file.   wodim
              assumes that the file in this case is a Sun audio file or a Microsoft .WAV file and extracts the audio
              data from the files by skipping over the non-audio header information.  In all other cases, wodim will
              only  work correctly if the audio data stream does not have any header.  Because many structured audio
              files do not have an integral number of blocks (1/75th second) in length, it  is  often  necessary  to
              specify  the  -pad option as well.  wodim recognizes that audio data in a .WAV file is stored in Intel
              (little-endian) byte order, and will automatically byte-swap the data if the CD recorder requires big-
              endian data.  wodim will reject any audio file that does not match the Red Book requirements of 16-bit
              stereo samples in PCM coding at 44100 samples/second.

              Using other structured audio data formats as input to wodim will usually work if the structure of  the
              data  is  the structure described above (raw pcm data in big-endian byte order).  However, if the data
              format includes a header, you will hear a click at the start of a track.

              If neither -data nor -audio have been specified, wodim defaults to -audio for all filenames  that  end
              in .au or .wav and to -data for all other files.

       -swab  If  this  flag  is  present,  audio data is assumed to be in byte-swapped (little-endian) order.  Some
              types of CD-Writers e.g. Yamaha, Sony and the new SCSI-3/mmc drives require audio data to be presented
              in little-endian order, while other writers require audio data to be presented in the big-endian (net‐
              work) byte order normally used by the SCSI protocol.  wodim knows if a CD-Recorder needs audio data in
              big-  or little-endian order, and corrects the byte order of the data stream to match the needs of the
              recorder.  You only need the -swab flag if your data stream is in Intel (little-endian) byte order.

              Note that the verbose output of wodim will show you if swapping is necessary to make the byte order of
              the input data fit the required byte order of the recorder.  wodim will not show you if the -swab flag
              was actually present for a track.

       -data  If this flag is present, all subsequent tracks are written in CD-ROM mode 1 (Yellow Book) format.  The
              data  size  is  a multiple of 2048 bytes.  The file with track data should contain an ISO-9660 or Rock
              Ridge filesystem image (see genisoimage for more details). If the track  data  is  an  ufs  filesystem
              image, fragment size should be set to 2 KB or more to allow CD-drives with 2 KB sector size to be used
              for reading.

              -data is the default, if no other flag is present and the file does not appear to be  of  one  of  the
              well known audio file types.

              If  neither  -data nor -audio have been specified, wodim defaults to -audio for all filenames that end
              in .au or .wav and to -data for all other files.

       -mode2 If this flag is present, all subsequent tracks are written in CD-ROM mode 2 format. The data size is a
              multiple of 2336 bytes.

       -xa    If this flag is present, all subsequent tracks are written in CD-ROM XA mode 2 form 1 format. The data
              size is a multiple of 2048 bytes.  The XA sector sub headers will be created by the drive.  With  this
              option, the write mode is the same as with the -multi option.

       -xa1   If this flag is present, all subsequent tracks are written in CD-ROM XA mode 2 form 1 format. The data
              size is a multiple of 2056 bytes.  The XA sector sub headers are part of the user data and have to  be
              supplied by the application that prepares the data to be written.

       -xa2   If this flag is present, all subsequent tracks are written in CD-ROM XA mode 2 form 2 format. The data
              is a multiple of 2324 bytes.  The XA sector sub headers will be created by the drive.

       -xamix If this flag is present, all subsequent tracks are written in a way that allows a  mix  of  CD-ROM  XA
              mode 2 form 1/2 format. The data size is a multiple of 2332 bytes.  The XA sector sub headers are part
              of the user data and have to be supplied by the application that prepares the data to be written.  The
              CRC  and  the P/Q parity ECC/EDC information (depending on the sector type) have to be supplied by the
              application that prepares the data to be written.

       -cdi   If this flag is present, the TOC type for the disk is set to CDI.   This  only  makes  sense  with  XA
              disks.

       -isosize
              Use  the  ISO-9660  file system size as the size of the next track.  This option is needed if you want
              wodim to directly read the image of a track from a raw disk partition or from a TAO master CD. In  the
              first  case  the option -isosize is needed to limit the size of the CD to the size of the ISO filesys‐
              tem.  In the second case the option -isosize is needed to prevent wodim from reading the two  run  out
              blocks that are appended by each CD-recorder in track at once mode. These two run out blocks cannot be
              read and would cause a buffer underrun that would cause a defective copy.  Do not use this  option  on
              files  created  by  genisoimage and in case wodim reads the track data from stdin.  In the first case,
              you would prevent wodim from writing the amount of padding that has been appended by  genisoimage  and
              in the latter case, it will not work because stdin is not seekable.

              If  -isosize  is  used for a track, wodim will automatically add padding for this track as if the -pad
              option has been used but the amount of padding may be less than the padding  written  by  genisoimage.
              Note  that  if  you use -isosize on a track that contains Sparc boot information, the boot information
              will be lost.

              Note also that this option cannot be used to determine the size of a file system if the multi  session
              option is present.

       -pad   If the track is a data track, 15 sectors of zeroed data will be added to the end of this and each sub‐
              sequent data track.  In this case, the -pad option is superseded  by  the  padsize=  option.  It  will
              remain  however  as  a  shorthand for padsize=15s.  If the -pad option refers to an audio track, wodim
              will pad the audio data to be a multiple of 2352 bytes.  The audio data padding is  done  with  binary
              zeroes which is equal to absolute silence.

              -pad remains valid until disabled by -nopad.

       padsize=#
              Set  the  amount of data to be appended as padding to the next track to #.  Opposed to the behavior of
              the -pad option, the value for padsize= is reset to zero for each new track.  wodim assumes  a  sector
              size of 2048 bytes for the padsize= option, independent from the real sector size and independent from
              the write mode.  The megabytes mentioned in the verbose mode output however are  counting  the  output
              sector  size  which  is  e.g.  2448 bytes when writing in RAW/RAW96 mode.  See fs= option for possible
              arguments.  To pad the equivalent of 20 minutes on a CD, you may write  padsize=20x60x75s.   Use  this
              option  if  your CD-drive is not able to read the last sectors of a track or if you want to be able to
              read the CD on a Linux system with the ISO-9660 filesystem read ahead bug.  If an empty file  is  used
              for  track  data, this option may be used to create a disk that is entirely made of padding.  This may
              e.g. be used to find out how much overburning is possible with a specific media.

       -nopad Do not pad the following tracks - the default.

       -shorttrack
              Allow all subsequent tracks to violate the Red Book track length standard  which  requires  a  minimum
              track  length  of 4 seconds.  This option is only useful when used in SAO or RAW mode.  Not all drives
              support this feature. The drive must accept the resulting CUE sheet or support RAW writing.

       -noshorttrack
              Re-enforce the Red Book track length standard. Tracks must be at least 4 seconds.

       pregap=#
              Set the  pre-gap size for the next track.  This option currently only makes sense with the TEAC  drive
              when creating track-at-once disks without the 2 second silence before each track.
              This option may go away in future.

       -preemp
              If this flag is present, all TOC entries for subsequent audio tracks will indicate that the audio data
              has been sampled with 50/15 microsec pre-emphasis.  The data,  however  is  not  modified  during  the
              process of transferring from file to disk.  This option has no effect on data tracks.

       -nopreemp
              If this flag is present, all TOC entries for subsequent audio tracks will indicate that the audio data
              has been mastered with linear data - this is the default.

       -copy  If this flag is present, all TOC entries for subsequent audio tracks of the resulting CD will indicate
              that  the  audio  data  has  permission to be copied without limit.  This option has no effect on data
              tracks.

       -nocopy
              If this flag is present, all TOC entries for subsequent audio tracks of the resulting CD will indicate
              that the audio data has permission to be copied only once for personal use - this is the default.

       -scms  If this flag is present, all TOC entries for subsequent audio tracks of the resulting CD will indicate
              that the audio data has no permission to be copied anymore.

       tsize=#
              If the master image for the next track has been stored on a raw disk, use this option to  specify  the
              valid  amount  of  data  on this disk. If the image of the next track is stored in a regular file, the
              size of that file is taken to determine the length of this track.  If the track contains an  ISO  9660
              filesystem image use the -isosize option to determine the length of that filesystem image.
              In  Disk  at  Once mode and with some drives that use the TEAC programming interface, even in Track at
              Once mode, wodim needs to know the size of each track before starting to write the  disk.   wodim  now
              checks  this  and  aborts  before starting to write.  If this happens you will need to run genisoimage
              -print-size before and use the output (with `s' appended) as an argument to the tsize= option of wodim
              (e.g. tsize=250000s).
              See fs= option for possible arguments.


EXAMPLES
       For  all  examples below, it will be assumed that the CD/DVD-Recorder is connected to the primary SCSI bus of
       the machine. The SCSI target id is set to 2.

       To record a pure CD-ROM at double speed, using data from the file cdimage.raw:

           wodim -v speed=2 dev=2,0 cdimage.raw

       To create an image for a ISO 9660 filesystem with Rock Ridge extensions:

           genisoimage -R -o cdimage.raw /home/joerg/master/tree

       To check the resulting file before writing to CD on Solaris:

           mount -r -F fbk -o type=hsfs /dev/fbk0:cdimage.raw /mnt

       On Linux:

           mount cdimage.raw -r -t iso9660 -o loop /mnt

       Go on with:
           ls -lR /mnt
           umount /mnt

       If the overall speed of the system is sufficient and the structure of the  filesystem  is  not  too  complex,
       wodim will run without creating an image of the ISO 9660 filesystem. Simply run the pipeline:

           genisoimage -R /master/tree | wodim -v fs=6m speed=2 dev=2,0 -

       The  recommended  minimum FIFO size for running this pipeline is 4 MBytes.  As the default FIFO size is 4 MB,
       the fs= option needs only be present if you want to use a different FIFO size.  If your system is loaded, you
       should run genisoimage in the real time class too.  To raise the priority of genisoimage replace the command

           genisoimage -R /master/tree
       by
           priocntl -e -c RT -p 59 genisoimage -R /master/tree

       on Solaris and by

           nice --18 genisoimage -R /master/tree

       on systems that don't have UNIX International compliant real-time scheduling.

       wodim  runs  at priority 59 on Solaris, you should run genisoimage at no more than priority 58. On other sys‐
       tems, you should run genisoimage at no less than nice --18.

       Creating a CD-ROM without file system image on disk has  been  tested  on  a  Sparcstation-2  with  a  Yamaha
       CDR-400.  It did work up to quad speed when the machine was not loaded.  A faster machine may be able to han‐
       dle quad speed also in the loaded case.

       To record a pure CD-DA (audio) at single speed, with each track contained in a  file  named  track01.cdaudio,
       track02.cdaudio, etc:

           wodim -v speed=1 dev=/dev/cdrw -audio track*.cdaudio

       To check if it will be ok to use double speed for the example above.  Use the dummy write option:

           wodim -v -dummy speed=2 dev=/dev/cdrw -audio track*.cdaudio

       To  record  a mixed-mode CD with an ISO 9660 filesystem from cdimage.raw on the first track, the other tracks
       being audio tracks from the files track01.cdaudio, track02.cdaudio, etc:

           wodim -v dev=2,0 cdimage.raw -audio track*.cdaudio

       To handle drives that need to know the size of a track before starting to write, first run

           genisoimage -R -q -print-size /master/tree

       and then run

           genisoimage -R /master/tree | wodim speed=2 dev=2,0 tsize=XXXs -

       where XXX is replaced by the output of the previous run of genisoimage.

       To copy an audio CD in the most accurate way, first run

           icedax dev=/dev/cdrom -vall cddb=0 -B -Owav

       and then run

           wodim dev=/dev/cdrw -v -dao -useinfo -text  *.wav

       This will try to copy track indices and to read CD-Text information from disk.  If there is no CD-Text infor‐
       mation, icedax will try to get the information from freedb.org instead.

       To copy an audio CD from a pipe (without intermediate files), first run

           icedax dev=1,0 -vall cddb=0 -info-only

       and then run

           icedax dev=1,0 -no-infofile -B -Oraw - | \
           wodim dev=2,0 -v -dao -audio -useinfo -text *.inf

       This  will  get all information (including track size info) from the *.inf files and then read the audio data
       from stdin.

       If you like to write from stdin, make sure that  wodim  is  called  with  a  large  enough  FIFO  size  (e.g.
       fs=128m),  reduce  the  write speed to a value below the read speed of the source drive (e.g.  speed=12), and
       get a CD/DVD drive with BURN-Free feature if it is not available yet.

       To set drive options without writing a CD (e.g. to switch a drive to single session mode), run

           wodim dev=1,0 -setdropts driveropts=singlesession

       If you like to do this when no CD is in the drive, call

           wodim dev=1,0 -force -setdropts driveropts=singlesession

       To copy a CD in clone mode, first read the master CD using:

           readom dev=b,t,l -clone f=somefile

       or (in case the CD contains many sectors that are unreadable by intention) by calling:

           readom dev=1,0 -clone -nocorr f=somefile

       will create the files somefile and somefile.toc.  Then write the CD using:

           wodim dev=1,0 -raw96r -clone -v somefile



ENVIRONMENT
       CDR_DEVICE
              This may either hold a device identifier that is suitable to the  open  call  of  the  SCSI  transport
              library or a label in the file /etc/wodim.conf.

       CDR_SPEED
              Sets the default speed value for writing (see also speed= option).

       CDR_FIFOSIZE
              Sets the default size of the FIFO (see also fs=# option).

       CDR_FORCERAWSPEED
              If  this  environment  variable is set, wodim will allow you to write at the full RAW encoding speed a
              single CPU supports.  This will create high potential of buffer underruns. Use with care.

       CDR_FORCESPEED
              If this environment variable is set, wodim will allow you to write at the full DMA  speed  the  system
              supports.   There  is  no DMA reserve for reading the data that is to be written from disk.  This will
              create high potential of buffer underruns. Use with care.

       RSH    If the RSH environment is present, the remote connection will not be created via rcmd(3) but by  call‐
              ing the program pointed to by RSH.  Use e.g.  RSH=/usr/bin/ssh to create a secure shell connection.

              Note  that  this  forces  wodim to create a pipe to the rsh(1) program and disallows wodim to directly
              access the network socket to the remote server.  This makes it impossible to set up performance param‐
              eters and slows down the connection compared to a root initiated rcmd(3) connection.

       RSCSI  If   the   RSCSI   environment   is   present,  the  remote  SCSI  server  will  not  be  the  program
              /opt/schily/sbin/rscsi but the program pointed to by RSCSI.  Note that the remote SCSI server  program
              name  will  be  ignored if you log in using an account that has been created with a remote SCSI server
              program as login shell.


FILES
       /etc/wodim.conf
              Default values can be set for the following options in /etc/wodim.conf.  For example:  CDR_FIFOSIZE=8m
              or CDR_SPEED=2

              CDR_DEVICE
                     This  may  either hold a device identifier that is suitable to the open call of the SCSI trans‐
                     port library or a label in the file /etc/wodim.conf that allows to identify a specific drive on
                     the system.

              CDR_SPEED
                     Sets the default speed value for writing (see also speed= option).

              CDR_FIFOSIZE
                     Sets the default size of the FIFO (see also fs=# option).

              CDR_MAXFIFOSIZE
                     Sets the maximum size of the FIFO (see also fs=# option).

              Any other keyword (label) is an identifier (symbolic name) for a specific drive
                     on the system.  Such an identifier may not contain the characters ',', '/', '@' or ':'.

                     Each  line that follows a label contains a whitespace separated list of items.  Currently, four
                     items are recognized: the drive's target specification, the default speed that should  be  used
                     for  this  drive,  the  default FIFO size that should be used for this drive and drive specific
                     options. The values for speed and fifosize may be set to -1 to tell wodim  to  use  the  global
                     defaults.  target can be -1 to use the auto-guessing of the drive (see above).

                     The value for driveropts may be omitted or set to "" if no driveropts are used.  A typical line
                     may look this way:

                     plex760= 0,5,0 12   50m  varirec=1

                     pioneer= /dev/hdd   -1   -1

                     This tells wodim that a drive named plex760 is at scsibus 0, target 5, lun 0 and should be used
                     with  speed 12 and a FIFO size of 50 MB. It also uses some device specific parameter.  A second
                     drive may is accessible via the device file /dev/hdd and uses the default speed and the default
                     FIFO size.


SEE ALSO
       icedax(1), readom(1), genisoimage(1), ssh(1).


NOTES
       On  Solaris you need to stop the volume management if you like to use the USCSI fallback SCSI transport code.
       Even things like wodim -scanbus will not work if the volume management is running.

       Disks made in Track At Once mode are not suitable as a master for direct mass production by CD manufacturers.
       You  will  need  the  disk at once option to record such disks.  Nevertheless the disks made in Track At Once
       will normally be read in all CD players. Some old audio CD players however may produce  a  two  second  click
       between two audio tracks.

       The  minimal  size  of a track is 4 seconds or 300 sectors. If you write smaller tracks, the CD-Recorder will
       add dummy blocks. This is not an error, even though the SCSI-error message looks this way.

       The Yamaha CDR-400 and all new SCSI-3/mmc conforming drives are supported in single and multi-session.

       You should run several tests in all supported speeds of your drive with the -dummy option turned  on  if  you
       are  using wodim on an unknown system. Writing a CD is a real-time process.  NFS, CIFS and other network file
       systems won't always deliver constantly the needed data rates.  If you want to use wodim with CD-images  that
       are  located on a NFS mounted filesystem, be sure that the FIFO size is big enough.  If you want to make sure
       that buffer underruns are not caused by your source disk, you may use the command

           wodim -dummy dev=2,0 padsize=600m /dev/null

       to create a disk that is entirely made of dummy data.

       There are also cases where you either need to be root or install wodim executable with suid-root permissions.
       First,  if  you  are  using a device manufactured before 1999 which requires a non-MMC driver, you should run
       wodim in dummy mode before writing data. If you find a problem doing this, please report  it  to  the  cdrkit
       maintainers (see below).

       Second, certain functionality may be unusable because of Linux's SCSI command filtering. When using wodim for
       anything except of pure data writing, you should also test the process in dummy mode and  report  trouble  to
       the contact address below.

       If  you still want to run wodim with root permissions, you can set the permissions of the executable to suid-
       root. See the additional notes of your system/program distribution or README.suidroot which is  part  of  the
       cdrkit source.

       You  should  not  connect  old drives that do not support disconnect/reconnect to either the SCSI bus that is
       connected to the CD-Recorder or the source disk.

       A Compact Disc can have no more than 99 tracks.

       When creating a disc with both audio and data tracks, the data should be on track 1 otherwise you should cre‐
       ate  a  CDplus  disk which is a multi session disk with the first session containing the audio tracks and the
       following session containing the data track.

       Many operating systems are not able to read more than a single data track, or need special software to do so.

       If you have more information or SCSI command manuals for  currently  unsupported  CD/DVD/BR/HD-DVD-Recorders,
       please contact the cdrkit maintainers (see below).

       Many CD recorders have bugs and often require a firmware update to work correctly. If you experience problems
       which cannot be solved or explained by the notes above, please look for instructions on the homepage  of  the
       particular manufacturer.

       Some bugs will force you to power cycle the device or to reboot the machine.

       The  FIFO  percent output is computed just after a block of data has been written to the CD/DVD-Recorder. For
       this reason, there will never be 100% FIFO fill ratio while the FIFO is in streaming mode.


DIAGNOSTICS
       You have 4 seconds to abort wodim start after you see the message:

       Starting to write CD at speed %d in %s mode for %s session.  In most shells you can do that by pressing Ctrl-
       C.

       A typical error message for a SCSI command looks like:

              wodim: I/O error. test unit ready: scsi sendcmd: no error
              CDB:  00 20 00 00 00 00
              status: 0x2 (CHECK CONDITION)
              Sense Bytes: 70 00 05 00 00 00 00 0A 00 00 00 00 25 00 00 00 00 00
              Sense Key: 0x5 Illegal Request, Segment 0
              Sense Code: 0x25 Qual 0x00 (logical unit not supported) Fru 0x0
              Sense flags: Blk 0 (not valid)
              cmd finished after 0.002s timeout 40s

       The  first  line  gives information about the transport of the command.  The text after the first colon gives
       the error text for the system call from the view of the kernel. It usually is: I/O error unless  other  prob‐
       lems happen. The next words contain a short description for the SCSI command that fails. The rest of the line
       tells you if there were any problems for the transport of the command over the SCSI bus.  fatal  error  means
       that it was not possible to transport the command (i.e. no device present at the requested SCSI address).

       The second line prints the SCSI command descriptor block for the failed command.

       The  third  line  gives  information on the SCSI status code returned by the command, if the transport of the
       command succeeds.  This is error information from the SCSI device.

       The fourth line is a hex dump of the auto request sense information for the command.

       The fifth line is the error text for the sense key if available, followed by the segment number that is  only
       valid if the command was a copy command. If the error message is not directly related to the current command,
       the text deferred error is appended.

       The sixth line is the error text for the sense code and the sense qualifier if available.  If the type of the
       device  is  known,  the  sense data is decoded from tables in scsierrs.c .  The text is followed by the error
       value for a field replaceable unit.

       The seventh line prints the block number that is related to the failed command and  text  for  several  error
       flags. The block number may not be valid.

       The  eight  line  reports  the timeout set up for this command and the time that the command really needed to
       complete.

       The following message is not an error:

              Track 01: Total bytes read/written: 2048/2048 (1 sectors).
              wodim: I/O error. flush cache: scsi sendcmd: no error
              CDB:  35 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
              status: 0x2 (CHECK CONDITION)
              Sense Bytes: F0 00 05 80 00 00 27 0A 00 00 00 00 B5 00 00 00 00 00
              Sense Key: 0x5 Illegal Request, Segment 0
              Sense Code: 0xB5 Qual 0x00 (dummy data blocks added) Fru 0x0
              Sense flags: Blk -2147483609 (valid)
              cmd finished after 0.002s timeout 40s

       It simply notifies, that a track that is smaller than the minimum size has been expanded to 300 sectors.

BUGS
       netscsid does not work properly and is generally unmaintained. It is probably not compatible with rscsi  from
       cdrtools either. Good bugfixes are welcome, talk to Cdrkit maintainers.

       cuefile support is very limited, only one file is allowed. For volunteers, see TODO file in the source.

       Specifying an audio file multiple times causes corruption of the second track (effectively no data plus mini‐
       mum padding).

       Some of the bugs may be fixed in Joerg Schilling's cdrtools. See there for details, URL attached below.


CREDITS
       Joerg Schilling (schilling@fokus.fhg.de)
                      For writing cdrecord and libscg which represent the most parts of wodim's code.

       Bill Swartz    (Bill_Swartz@twolf.com)
                      For helping me with the TEAC driver support

       Aaron Newsome  (aaron.d.newsome@wdc.com)
                      For letting me develop Sony support on his drive

       Eric Youngdale (eric@andante.jic.com)
                      For supplying mkisofs

       Gadi Oxman     (gadio@netvision.net.il)
                      For tips on the ATAPI standard

       Finn Arne Gangstad  (finnag@guardian.no)
                      For the first FIFO implementation.

       Dave Platt     (dplatt@feghoot.ml.org)
                      For creating the experimental packet writing support, the first implementation of CD-RW blank‐
                      ing support, the first .wav file decoder and many nice discussions on cdrecord.

       Chris P. Ross (cross@eng.us.uu.net)
                      For the first implementation of a BSDI SCSI transport.

       Grant R. Guenther   (grant@torque.net)
                      For creating the first parallel port transport implementation for Linux.

       Kenneth D. Merry (ken@kdm.org)
                      for providing the CAM port for FreeBSD together with Michael Smith (msmith@freebsd.org)

       Heiko Eiszfeldt (heiko@hexco.de)
                      for making libedc_ecc available (needed to write RAW data sectors).


MAILING LISTS
       If  you  want  to actively take part on the development of wodim, you may join the developer mailing list via
       this URL:

       https://alioth.debian.org/mail/?group_id=31006

       The mail address of the list is: debburn-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org


AUTHORS
       wodim is currently maintained as part of the cdrkit project by its developers. Most of the code and this man‐
       ual page was originally written by:

       Joerg Schilling
       Seestr. 110
       D-13353 Berlin
       Germany

       This  application  is  derived  from  "cdrecord"  as  included  in  the cdrtools package [1] created by Joerg
       Schilling, who deserves most of the credit for its success. However, he is not involved into the  development
       of this spinoff and therefore he shall not be held responsible for any problems caused by it. Do not refer to
       this application as "cdrecord", do not try to get support for wodim by contacting the original authors.

       Additional information can be found on:
       https://alioth.debian.org/projects/debburn/

       If you have support questions, send them to

       debburn-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org

       If you have definitely found a bug, send a mail to this list or to

       submit@bugs.debian.org

       writing at least a short description into the Subject and "Package: cdrkit" in the first  line  of  the  mail
       body.

SOURCES
       [1] Cdrtools 2.01.01a08 from May 2006, http://cdrecord.berlios.de




                                                     Version 2.0                                            wodim(1)
