NSGMLS(1)                                      General Commands Manual                                     NSGMLS(1)



NAME
       nsgmls - a validating SGML parser

       An  System Conforming to
       International Standard ISO 8879 —
       Standard Generalized Markup Language

SYNOPSIS
       nsgmls  [  -BCdeglprsuv  ] [ -alinktype ] [ -b(bctf|encoding) ] [ -Ddirectory ] [ -Emax_errors ] [ -ffile ] [
       -iname ] [ -msysid ] [ -ooutput_option ] [ -tfile ] [ -wwarning_type ] [ sysid...  ]

WARNING
       This manual page may be out of date.  Consult the HTML documentation for the most up-to-date information con‐
       cerning this program.  You can find the HTML document in: /usr/share/doc/sp/nsgmls.htm

DESCRIPTION
       Nsgmls  parses  and  validates  the   document  whose  document entity is specified by the system identifiers
       sysid...  and prints on the standard output a simple text representation of its Element Structure Information
       Set.   (This  is  the  information set which a structure-controlled conforming  application should act upon.)
       The form of system identifiers is described in detail below; a system identifier that does not start  with  <
       and  does not look like an absolute URL will be treated as a filename.  If more than one system identifier is
       specified, then the corresponding entities will be concatenated to form the document entity.  Thus the  docu‐
       ment  entity  may  be  spread  amongst  several files; for example, the SGML declaration, prolog and document
       instance set could each be in a separate file.  If no system identifiers are specified, then nsgmls will read
       the  document  entity from the standard input.  A command line system identifier of - can be used to refer to
       the standard input.  (Normally in a system identifier, <osfd>0 is used to refer to standard input.)

       The following options are available:

       -alinktype
              Make link type linktype active.  Not all ESIS information is output in this case: the active LPDs  are
              not  explicitly  reported, although each link attribute is qualified with its link type name; there is
              no information about result elements; when there are multiple link rules  applicable  to  the  current
              element, nsgmls always chooses the first.

       -b(bctf|encoding)
              This  determines the encoding used for output. If in fixed character set mode it specifies the name of
              an encoding; if not, it specifies the name of a BCTF.  See the description below of the  bctf  storage
              manager attribute for more information.

       -B     Batch  mode.  Parse  each sysid... specified on the command line separately, rather than concatenating
              them. This is useful mainly with -s.
              If -tfilename is also specified, then the specified filename will be prefixed to the sysid to make the
              filename for the RAST result for each sysid.

       -C     The filename...  arguments specify catalog files rather than the document entity.  The document entity
              is specified by the first DOCUMENT entry in the catalog files.

       -Ddirectory
              Search directory for files specified in system identifiers.  Multiple -D options are allowed.  See the
              description of the osfile storage manager for more information about file searching.

       -e     Describe  open  entities  in  error  messages.  Error messages always include the position of the most
              recently opened external entity.

       -E max_errors
              Nsgmls will exit after max_errors errors. If max_errors is 0, there is  no  limit  on  the  number  of
              errors. The default is 200.

       -ffile Redirect errors to file.  This is useful mainly with shells that do not support redirection of stderr.

       -g     Show the GIs of open elements in error messages.

       -iname Pretend that

                     <!ENTITY % name "INCLUDE">

              occurs  at  the start of the document type declaration subset in the  document entity.  Since repeated
              definitions of an entity are ignored, this definition will take precedence over any other  definitions
              of  this  entity in the document type declaration.  Multiple -i options are allowed.  If the  declara‐
              tion replaces the reserved name INCLUDE then the new reserved name will be the replacement text of the
              entity.  Typically the document type declaration will contain

                     <!ENTITY % name "IGNORE">

              and will use %name; in the status keyword specification of a marked section declaration.  In this case
              the effect of the option will be to cause the marked section not to be ignored.

       -msysid
              Map public identifiers and entity names to system identifiers using the catalog entry file whose  sys‐
              tem  identifier  is  sysid.  Multiple -m options are allowed.  If there is a catalog entry file called
              catalog in the same place as the document entity, it will be  searched  for  immediately  after  those
              specified by -m.

       -ooutput_option
              Output additional information accordig to output_option:

              entity Output definitions of all general entities not just for data or subdoc entities that are refer‐
                     enced or named in an ENTITY or ENTITIES attribute.

              id     Distinguish attributes whose declared value is ID.

              line   Output L commands giving the current line number and filename.

              included
                     Output an i command for included subelements.

              Multiple -o options are allowed.

       -p     Parse only the prolog.  Nsgmls will exit after parsing the document type declaration.  Implies -s.

       -s     Suppress output.  Error messages will still be printed.

       -tfile Output to file the RAST result as defined by ISO/IEC 13673:1995 (actually this isn't quite an IS  yet;
              this  implements  the  Intermediate  Editor's  Draft  of 1994/08/29, with changes to implement ISO/IEC
              JTC1/SC18/WG8 N1777).  The normal output is not produced.

       -v     Print the version number.

       -wtype Control warnings and errors.  Multiple -w options are allowed.  The following values  of  type  enable
              warnings:

              mixed  Warn about mixed content models that do not allow #pcdata anywhere.

              sgmldecl
                     Warn about various dubious constructions in the SGML declaration.

              should Warn  about  various  recommendations  made in ISO 8879 that the document does not comply with.
                     (Recommendations are expressed with ``should'', as distinct from requirements which are usually
                     expressed with ``shall''.)

              default
                     Warn about defaulted references.

              duplicate
                     Warn about duplicate entity declarations.

              undefined
                     Warn about undefined elements: elements used in the DTD but not defined.

              unclosed
                     Warn about unclosed start and end-tags.

              empty  Warn about empty start and end-tags.

              net    Warn about net-enabling start-tags and null end-tags.

              min-tag
                     Warn  about minimized start and end-tags.  Equivalent to combination of unclosed, empty and net
                     warnings.

              unused-map
                     Warn about unused short reference maps: maps that are declared with a short  reference  mapping
                     declaration but never used in a short reference use declaration in the DTD.

              unused-param
                     Warn about parameter entities that are defined but not used in a DTD.

              all    Warn  about  conditions that should usually be avoided (in the opinion of the author).  Equiva‐
                     lent to: mixed, should, default,  undefined,  sgmldecl,  unused-map,  unused-param,  empty  and
                     unclosed.

              A  warning can be disabled by using its name prefixed with no-.  Thus -wall -wno-duplicate will enable
              all warnings except those about duplicate entity declarations.

              The following values for warning_type disable errors:

              no-idref
                     Do not give an error for an ID reference value which no element has as its ID.  The effect will
                     be as if each attribute declared as an ID reference value had been declared as a name.

              no-significant
                     Do not give an error when a character that is not a significant character in the reference con‐
                     crete syntax occurs in a literal in the SGML declaration.  This may be  useful  in  conjunction
                     with certain buggy test suites.

       The following options are also supported for backwards compatibility with sgmls:

       -d     Same as -wduplicate.

       -l     Same as -oline.

       -r     Same as -wdefault.

       -u     Same as -wundef.

   System identifiers
       A system identifier can either be a formal system identifier or a simple system identifier.  A system identi‐
       fier that is a formal system identifier consists of a sequence of one or more storage object  specifications.
       The  objects  specified  by the storage object specifications are concatenated to form the entity.  A storage
       object specification consists of an SGML start-tag in the reference concrete  syntax  followed  by  character
       data  content.   The  generic identifier of the start-tag is the name of a storage manager.  The content is a
       storage object identifier which identifies the storage object in a manner dependent on the  storage  manager.
       The  start-tag  can  also specify attributes giving additional information about the storage object.  Numeric
       character references are recognized in storage object identifiers and attribute value literals in the  start-
       tag.   Record  ends  are  ignored in the storage object identifier as with SGML.  A system identifier will be
       interpreted as a formal system identifier if it starts with a < followed by a storage manager name,  followed
       by either > or white-space; otherwise it will be interpreted as a simple system identifier.  A storage object
       identifier extends until the end of the system identifier or until the first occurrence of <  followed  by  a
       storage manager name, followed by either > or white-space.

       The following storage managers are available:

       osfile The  storage object identifier is a filename.  If the filename is relative it is resolved using a base
              filename.  Normally the base filename is the name of the file in which the storage  object  identifier
              was  specified,  but  this can be changed using the base attribute.  The filename will be searched for
              first in the directory of the base filename.  If it is not found there, then it will be  searched  for
              in  directories  specified with the -D option in the order in which they were specified on the command
              line, and then in the list of directories specified by the environment variable SGML_SEARCH_PATH.  The
              list is separated by colons under Unix and by semi-colons under MSDOS.

       osfd   The storage object identifier is an integer specifying a file descriptor.  Thus a system identifier of
              <osfd>0 will refer to the standard input.

       url    The storage object identifier is a URL.  Only the http scheme is currently supported and  not  on  all
              systems.

       neutral
              The storage manager is the storage manager of storage object in which the system identifier was speci‐
              fied (the underlying storage manager).  However if the underlying storage  manager  does  not  support
              named  storage  objects  (ie it is osfd), then the storage manager will be osfile.  The storage object
              identifier is treated as a relative, hierarchical name separated by slashes (/)  and  will  be  trans‐
              formed as appropriate for the underlying storage manager.

       The following attributes are supported:

       records
              This describes how records are delimited in the storage object:

              cr     Records are terminated by a carriage return.

              lf     Records are terminated by a line feed.

              crlf   Records are terminated by a carriage return followed by a line feed.

              find   Records  are  terminated  by  whichever  of  cr, lf or crlf is first encountered in the storage
                     object.

              asis   No recognition of records is performed.

              The default is find except for NDATA entities for which the default is asis.

              When records are recognized in a storage object, a record start is inserted at the beginning  of  each
              record,  and  a  record  end  at  the end of each record.  If there is a partial record (a record that
              doesn't end with the record terminator) at the end of the entity, then a record start will be inserted
              before it but no record end will be inserted after it.

              The attribute name and = can be omitted for this attribute.

       zapeof This  specifies  whether  a  Control-Z  character  that occurs as the final byte in the storage object
              should be stripped.  The following values are allowed:

              zapeof A final Control-Z should be stripped.

              nozapeof
                     A final Control-Z should not be stripped.

              The default  is  zapeof  except  for  NDATA  entities,  entities  declared  in  storage  objects  with
              zapeof=nozapeof and storage objects with records=asis.

              The attribute name and = can be omitted for this attribute.

       bctf   The  bctf  (bit combination transformation format) attribute describes how the bit combinations of the
              storage object are transformed into the sequence of bytes that are contained in the object  identified
              by  the  storage  object identifier.  This inverse of this transformation is performed when the entity
              manager reads the storage object.  It has one of the following values:

              identity
                     Each bit combination is represented by a single byte.

              fixed-2
                     Each bit combination is represented by exactly 2 bytes, with the more significant byte first.

              utf-8  Each bit combination is represented by a variable number of bytes according to UCS  Transforma‐
                     tion  Format  8 defined in Annex P to be added by the first proposed drafted amendment (PDAM 1)
                     to ISO/IEC
                      10646-1:1993.

              euc-jp Each bit combination is treated as a pair of bytes, most significant  byte  first,  encoding  a
                     character using the Extended_UNIX_Code_Fixed_Width_for_Japanese Internet charset, and is trans‐
                     formed into the variable length sequence of octets that would encode that character  using  the
                     Extended_UNIX_Code_Packed_Format_for_Japanese Internet charset.

              sjis   Each  bit  combination  is  treated as a pair of bytes, most significant byte first, encoding a
                     character using the Extended_UNIX_Code_Fixed_Width_for_Japanese Internet charset, and is trans‐
                     formed  into  the  variable length sequence of bytes that would encode that character using the
                     Shift_JIS Internet charset.

              unicode
                     Each bit combination is represented by 2 bytes.  The  bytes  representing  the  entire  storage
                     object  may be preceded by a pair of bytes representing the byte order mark character (0xFEFF).
                     The bytes representing each bit combination are in the system byte order, unless the byte order
                     mark  character  is  present,  in  which case the order of its bytes determines the byte order.
                     When the storage object is read, any byte order mark character is discarded.

              is8859-N
                     N can be any single digit other than 0.  Each bit combination is interpreted as the number of a
                     character in ISO/IEC 10646 and is represented by the single byte that would encode that charac‐
                     ter in ISO 8859-N.  These values are not supported with the -b option.

              Values other than identity are supported only with the multi-byte version of nsgmls.

       tracking
              This specifies whether line boundaries should be tracked for this object: a value of  track  specifies
              that  they  should;  a  value  of notrack specifies that they should not.  The default value is track.
              Keeping track of where line boundaries occur in a storage object requires approximately  one  byte  of
              storage per line and it may be desirable to disable this for very large storage objects.

              The attribute name and = can be omitted for this attribute.

       base   When  the  storage  object  identifier specified in the content of the storage object specification is
              relative, this specifies the base storage object identifier relative  to  which  that  storage  object
              identifier should be resolved.  When not specified a storage object identifier is interpreted relative
              to the storage object in which it is specified, provided that this has the same storage manager.  This
              applies  both to system identifiers specified in SGML documents and to system identifiers specified in
              the catalog entry files.

       smcrd  The value is a single character that will be recognized in storage object  identifiers  (both  in  the
              content  of  storage  object  specifications and in the value of base attributes) as a storage manager
              character reference delimiter when followed by a digit.  A storage manager character reference is like
              an SGML numeric character reference except that the number is interpreted as a character number in the
              inherent character set of the storage manager rather than the document character set.  The default  is
              for no character to be recognized as a storage manager character reference delimiter.  Numeric charac‐
              ter references cannot be used to prevent recognition of storage  manager  character  reference  delim‐
              iters.

       fold   This  applies only to the neutral storage manager.  It specifies whether the storage object identifier
              should be folded to the customary case of the underlying storage manager if storage object identifiers
              for the underlying storage manager are case sensitive.  The following values are allowed:

              fold   The storage object identifier will be folded.

              nofold The storage object identifier will not be folded.

              The default value is fold.  The attribute name and = can be omitted for this attribute.

              For  example,  on  Unix  filenames are case-sensitive and the customary case is lower-case.  So if the
              underlying storage manager were osfile and the system was a Unix system, then  <neutral>FOO.SGM  would
              be equivalent to <osfile>foo.sgm.

       A  simple system identifier is interpreted as a storage object identifier with a storage manager that depends
       on where the system identifier was specified: if it was specified in a storage object whose  storage  manager
       was  url  or  if  the system identifier looks like an absolute URL in a supported scheme, the storage manager
       will be url; otherwise the storage manager will be osfile.  The storage manager attributes are  defaulted  as
       for  a  formal  system  identifier.  Numeric character references are not recognized in simple system identi‐
       fiers.

   System identifier generation
       The entity manager generates an effective system identifier for every external  entity  using  catalog  entry
       files  in  the  format  defined by SGML Open Technical Resolution 9401:1994.  The entity manager will give an
       error if it is unable to generate an effective system identifier for an external  entity.   Normally  if  the
       external  identifier  for an entity includes a system identifier then the entity manager will use that as the
       effective system identifier for the entity; this behaviour can be changed using OVERRIDE or SYSTEM entries in
       a catalog entry file.

       A catalog entry file contains a sequence of entries in one of the following forms:

       PUBLIC pubid sysid
              This  specifies  that sysid should be used as the effective system identifier if the public identifier
              is pubid.  Sysid is a system identifier as defined in ISO 8879 and pubid is  a  public  identifier  as
              defined in ISO 8879.

       ENTITY name sysid
              This specifies that sysid should be used as the effective system identifier if the entity is a general
              entity whose name is name.

       ENTITY %name sysid
              This specifies that sysid should be used as the effective system identifier if the entity is a parame‐
              ter entity whose name is name.  Note that there is no space between the % and the name.

       DOCTYPE name sysid
              This specifies that sysid should be used as the effective system identifier if the entity is an entity
              declared in a document type declaration whose document type name is name.

       LINKTYPE name sysid
              This specifies that sysid should be used as the effective system identifier if the entity is an entity
              declared in a link type declaration whose link type name is name.

       NOTATION name sysid
              This  specifies that sysid should be used as the effective system identifier for a notation whose name
              is name.  This is an extension to the SGML Open format.  This is relevant only with the -n option.

       OVERRIDE YES|NO
              This sets the overriding mode for entries up to the next occurrence of OVERRIDE or the end of the cat‐
              alog  entry file.  At the beginning of a catalog entry file the overriding mode will be NO.  A PUBLIC,
              ENTITY, DOCTYPE, LINKTYPE or NOTATION entry with an overriding mode of YES will be used whether or not
              the external identifier has an explicit system identifier; those with an overriding mode of NO will be
              ignored if external identifier has an explicit system identifier.  This is an extension  to  the  SGML
              Open format.

       SYSTEM sysid1 sysid2
              This  specifies that sysid2 should be used as the effective system identifier if the system identifier
              specified in the external identifier was sysid1.  This is an extension to the SGML Open format.

       SGMLDECL sysid
              This specifies that if the document does not contain an SGML  declaration,  the  SGML  declaration  in
              sysid should be implied.

       DOCUMENT sysid
              This specifies that the document entity is sysid.  This entry is used only with the -C option.

       CATALOG sysid
              This  specifies  that  sysid  is  the system identifier of an additional catalog entry file to be read
              after this one.  Multiple CATALOG entries are allowed and will be read in order.  This is an extension
              to the SGML Open format.

       The  delimiters  can  be  omitted  from the sysid provided it does not contain any white space.  Comments are
       allowed between parameters delimited by -- as in SGML.

       The environment variable SGML_CATALOG_FILES contains a list of catalog entry files.  The list is separated by
       colons under Unix and by semi-colons under MSDOS.  These will be searched after any catalog entry files spec‐
       ified using the -m option, and after the catalog entry file called catalog in the same place as the  document
       entity.  If this environment variable is not set, then a system dependent list of catalog entry files will be
       used.  In fact catalog entry files are not restricted to being files: the name of a  catalog  entry  file  is
       interpreted as a system identifier.

       A match in one catalog entry file will take precedence over any match in a later catalog entry file.  A match
       in a catalog entry file for a SYSTEM entry will take precedence over a match in the same file for  a  PUBLIC,
       ENTITY,  DOCTYPE,  LINKTYPE  or NOTATION entry.  A match in a catalog entry file for a PUBLIC entry will take
       precedence over a match in the same file for an ENTITY, DOCTYPE, LINKTYPE or NOTATION entry.

   System declaration
       The system declaration for nsgmls is as follows:

                               SYSTEM "ISO 8879:1986"
                                       CHARSET
       BASESET  "ISO 646-1983//CHARSET
                 International Reference Version (IRV)//ESC 2/5 4/0"
       DESCSET  0 128 0
       CAPACITY PUBLIC  "ISO 8879:1986//CAPACITY Reference//EN"
                                      FEATURES
       MINIMIZE DATATAG NO        OMITTAG  YES     RANK     YES   SHORTTAG YES
       LINK     SIMPLE  YES 65535 IMPLICIT YES     EXPLICIT YES 1
       OTHER    CONCUR  NO        SUBDOC   YES 100 FORMAL   YES
       SCOPE    DOCUMENT
       SYNTAX   PUBLIC  "ISO 8879:1986//SYNTAX Reference//EN"
       SYNTAX   PUBLIC  "ISO 8879:1986//SYNTAX Core//EN"
                                      VALIDATE
                GENERAL YES       MODEL    YES     EXCLUDE  YES   CAPACITY NO
                NONSGML YES       SGML     YES     FORMAL   YES
                                        SDIF
                PACK    NO        UNPACK   NO

       The limit for the SUBDOC parameter is memory dependent.

       Any legal concrete syntax may be used.

    declaration
       If the  declaration is omitted and there is no applicable SGMLDECL entry in a catalog, the following declara‐
       tion will be implied:

                           <!SGML "ISO 8879:1986"
                                   CHARSET
       BASESET  "ISO 646-1983//CHARSET
                 International Reference Version (IRV)//ESC 2/5 4/0"
       DESCSET    0  9 UNUSED
                  9  2  9
                 11  2 UNUSED
                 13  1 13
                 14 18 UNUSED
                 32 95 32
                127  1 UNUSED
       CAPACITY PUBLIC    "ISO 8879:1986//CAPACITY Reference//EN"
       SCOPE    DOCUMENT
       SYNTAX
       SHUNCHAR CONTROLS 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17
                18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 127 255
       BASESET  "ISO 646-1983//CHARSET International Reference Version
                 (IRV)//ESC 2/5 4/0"
       DESCSET  0 128 0
       FUNCTION RE                    13
                RS                    10
                SPACE                 32
                TAB       SEPCHAR     9
       NAMING   LCNMSTRT  ""
                UCNMSTRT  ""
                LCNMCHAR  "-."
                UCNMCHAR  "-."

                NAMECASE  GENERAL     YES
                          ENTITY      NO
       DELIM    GENERAL   SGMLREF
                SHORTREF  SGMLREF
       NAMES    SGMLREF
       QUANTITY SGMLREF
                ATTCNT    99999999
                ATTSPLEN  99999999
                DTEMPLEN  24000
                ENTLVL    99999999
                GRPCNT    99999999
                GRPGTCNT  99999999
                GRPLVL    99999999
                LITLEN    24000
                NAMELEN   99999999
                PILEN     24000
                TAGLEN    99999999
                TAGLVL    99999999
                                  FEATURES
       MINIMIZE DATATAG   NO
                OMITTAG   YES
                RANK      YES
                SHORTTAG  YES
       LINK     SIMPLE    YES 1000
                IMPLICIT  YES
                EXPLICIT  YES 1
       OTHER    CONCUR    NO
                SUBDOC    YES 99999999
                FORMAL    YES
                                APPINFO NONE>
       with the exception that all characters that are neither significant not shunned will be assigned to DATACHAR.

       A character in a base character set is described either by giving its number in a universal character set, or
       by specifying a minimum literal.  The constraints on the choice of universal character set are  that  charac‐
       ters  that  are  significant in the SGML reference concrete syntax must be in the universal character set and
       must have the same number in the universal character set as in ISO 646 and that each character in the charac‐
       ter set must be represented by exactly one number; that character numbers in the range 0 to 31 and 127 to 159
       are control characters (for the purpose of enforcing SHUNCHAR CONTROLS).  It is recommended  that  ISO  10646
       (Unicode)  be used as the universal character set, except in environments where the normal document character
       sets are large character set which cannot be compactly described in terms of ISO 10646.  The  public  identi‐
       fier  of  a  base character set can be associated with an entity that describes it by using a PUBLIC entry in
       the catalog entry file.  The entity must be a fragment of an SGML declaration consisting of the portion of  a
       character  set  description,  following  the  DESCSET  keyword,  that  is, it must be a sequence of character
       descriptions, where each character description specifies a described character number, the number of  charac‐
       ters  and  either a character number in the universal character set, a minimum literal or the keyword UNUSED.
       Character numbers in the universal character set can be as big as 99999999.

       In addition nsgmls has built in knowledge of a few character sets.  These are identified using the  designat‐
       ing sequence in the public identifier.  The following designating sequences are recognized:

       Designating       ISO         Minimum      Number
         Escape      Registration   Character       of             Description
        Sequence        Number       Number     Characters
       ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
       ESC 2/5 4/0        -             0          128       full set of ISO 646 IRV
       ESC 2/8 4/0        2             0          128       G0 set of ISO 646 IRV
       ESC 2/8 4/2        6             0          128       G0 set of ASCII
       ESC 2/1 4/0        1             0           32       C0 set of ISO 646

       The graphic character sets do not strictly include C0 and C1 control character sets.  For convenience, nsgmls
       augments the graphic character sets with the appropriate control character sets.

       It is not necessary for every character set used in the SGML declaration to be known to nsgmls provided  that
       characters  in  the  document character set that are significant both in the reference concrete syntax and in
       the described concrete syntax are described using known base character sets and that characters that are sig‐
       nificant  in the described concrete syntax are described using the same base character sets or the same mini‐
       mum literals in both the document character set description and the syntax reference character  set  descrip‐
       tion.

       The  public  identifier  for a public concrete syntax can be associated with an entity that describes using a
       PUBLIC entry in the catalog entry file.  The entity must be a fragment of an SGML declaration consisting of a
       concrete  syntax  description  starting  with the SHUNCHAR keyword as in an SGML declaration.  The entity can
       also make use of the following extensions:

              An added function can be expressed as a parameter literal instead of a name.

              The replacement for a reference reserved name can be expressed as a parameter  literal  instead  of  a
              name.

              The LCNMSTRT, UCNMSTRT, LCNMCHAR and UCNMCHAR keywords may each be followed by more than one parameter
              literal.  A sequence of parameter literals has the same meaning as a single  parameter  literal  whose
              content  is  the concatenation of the content of each of the literals in the sequence.  This extension
              is useful because of the restriction on the length of a parameter literal in the SGML  declaration  to
              240 characters.

              The total number of characters specified for UCNMCHAR or UCNMSTRT may exceed the total number of char‐
              acters specified for LCNMCHAR or LCNMSTRT respectively.  Each character in UCNMCHAR or UCNMSTRT  which
              does  not  have  a  corresponding  character  in  the  same position in LCNMCHAR or LCNMSTRT is simply
              assigned to UCNMCHAR or UCNMSTRT without making it the upper-case form of any character.

              A parameter following any of LCNMSTRT, UCNMSTRT, LCNMCHAR and UCNMCHAR keywords may be followed by the
              name  token ...  and another parameter literal.  This has the same meaning as the two parameter liter‐
              als with a parameter literal in between containing in order each character  whose  number  is  greater
              than  the  number of the last character in the first parameter literal and less than the number of the
              first character in the second parameter literal.  A parameter literal must contain at least one  char‐
              acter for each ...  to which it is adjacent.

              A  number  may be used as a parameter following the LCNMSTRT, UCNMSTRT, LCNMCHAR and UCNMCHAR keywords
              or as a delimiter in the DELIM section with the same meaning as a parameter literal containing just  a
              numeric character reference with that number.

              The  parameters following the LCNMSTRT, UCNMSTRT, LCNMCHAR and UCNMCHAR keywords may be omitted.  This
              has the same meaning as specifying an empty parameter literal.

              Within the specification of the short reference delimiters, a parameter literal containing exactly one
              character  may be followed by the name token ...  and another parameter literal containing exactly one
              character.  This has the same meaning as a sequence of parameter literals one for each character  num‐
              ber  that  is  greater than or equal to the number of the character in the first parameter literal and
              less than or equal to the number of the character in the second parameter literal.

       The public identifier for a public capacity set can be associated with an entity that describes using a  PUB‐
       LIC  entry  in  the catalog entry file.  The entity must be a fragment of an SGML declaration consisting of a
       sequence of capacity names and numbers.

   Output format
       The output is a series of lines.  Lines can be arbitrarily long.  Each line consists of  an  initial  command
       character  and  one or more arguments.  Arguments are separated by a single space, but when a command takes a
       fixed number of arguments the last argument can contain spaces.  There is no space between the command  char‐
       acter and the first argument.  Arguments can contain the following escape sequences.

       \\     A \.

       \n     A record end character.

       \|     Internal SDATA entities are bracketed by these.

       \nnn   The character whose code is nnn octal.

       A  record start character will be represented by \012.  Most applications will need to ignore \012 and trans‐
       late \n into newline.

       \#n;   The character whose number is n in decimal.  n can have any number of digits.  This is used for  char‐
              acters  that  are  not  representable by the encoding translation used for output (as specified by the
              NSGML_CODE environment variable).  This will only occur with the multibyte version of nsgmls.

       The possible command characters and arguments are as follows:

       (gi    The start of an element whose generic identifier is gi.  Any attributes for  this  element  will  have
              been specified with A commands.

       )gi    The end of an element whose generic identifier is gi.

       -data  Data.

       &name  A reference to an external data entity name; name will have been defined using an E command.

       ?pi    A processing instruction with data pi.

       Aname val
              The next element to start has an attribute name with value val which takes one of the following forms:

              IMPLIED
                     The value of the attribute is implied.

              CDATA data
                     The attribute is character data.  This is used for attributes whose declared value is CDATA.

              NOTATION nname
                     The attribute is a notation name; nname will have been defined using a N command.  This is used
                     for attributes whose declared value is NOTATION.

              ENTITY name...
                     The attribute is a list of general entity names.  Each entity name will have been defined using
                     an I, E or S command.  This is used for attributes whose declared value is ENTITY or ENTITIES.

              TOKEN token...
                     The  attribute  is  a list of tokens.  This is used for attributes whose declared value is any‐
                     thing else.

              ID token
                     The attribute is an ID value.  This will be output only if the -oid option is specified.   Oth‐
                     erwise TOKEN will be used for ID values.

       Dename name val
              This  is  the  same as the A command, except that it specifies a data attribute for an external entity
              named ename.  Any D commands will come after the E command that  defines  the  entity  to  which  they
              apply, but before any & or A commands that reference the entity.

       atype name val
              The  next  element  to start has a link attribute with link type type, name name, and value val, which
              takes the same form as with the A command.

       Nnname nname.  Define a notation.  This command will be preceded by a p command if the notation was  declared
              with  a  public  identifier, and by a s command if the notation was declared with a system identifier.
              If the -n option was specified, this command will also be preceded by an f command giving  the  system
              identifier  generated  by  the entity manager (unless it was unable to generate one).  A notation will
              only be defined if it is to be referenced in an E command or in an A command for an attribute  with  a
              declared value of NOTATION.

       Eename typ nname
              Define  an  external  data  entity named ename with type typ (CDATA, NDATA or SDATA) and notation not.
              This command will be preceded by an f command giving the system identifier  generated  by  the  entity
              manager (unless it was unable to generate one), by a p command if a public identifier was declared for
              the entity, and by a s command if a system identifier was declared for the entity.  not will have been
              defined  using a N command.  Data attributes may be specified for the entity using D commands.  If the
              -oentity option is not specified, an external data entity will only be defined if it is to  be  refer‐
              enced in a & command or in an A command for an attribute whose declared value is ENTITY or ENTITIES.

       Iename typ text
              Define  an internal data entity named ename with type typ and entity text text.  The typ will be CDATA
              or SDATA unless the -oentity option was specified, in which case it can also be PI  or  TEXT  (for  an
              text  entity).   If the -oentity option is not specified, an internal data entity will only be defined
              if it is referenced in an A command for an attribute whose declared value is ENTITY or ENTITIES.

       Sename Define a subdocument entity named ename.  This command will be preceded by an  f  command  giving  the
              system  identifier generated by the entity manager (unless it was unable to generate one), by a p com‐
              mand if a public identifier was declared for the entity, and by a s command if a system identifier was
              declared  for  the entity.  If the -oentity option is not specified, a subdocument entity will only be
              defined if it is referenced in a { command or in an A command for an attribute whose declared value is
              ENTITY or ENTITIES.

       Tename Define an external SGML text entity named ename.  This command will be preceded by an f command giving
              the system identifier generated by the entity manager (unless it was unable to generate one), by  a  p
              command  if a public identifier was declared for the entity, and by a s command if a system identifier
              was declared for the entity.  This command will be output only if the -oentity option is specified.

       ssysid This command applies to the next E, S, T or N command and specifies the associated system identifier.

       ppubid This command applies to the next E, S, T or N command and specifies the associated public identifier.

       fsysid This command applies to the next E, S, T or, if the -n option was specified, N command  and  specifies
              the system identifier generated by the entity manager from the specified external identifier and other
              information about the entity or notation.

       {ename The start of the  subdocument entity ename; ename will have been defined using a S command.

       }ename The end of the  subdocument entity ename.

       Llineno file
       Llineno
              Set the current line number and filename.  The file argument will be omitted if only the  line  number
              has changed.  This will be output only if the -l option has been given.

       #text  An  APPINFO  parameter  of  text  was specified in the  declaration.  This is not strictly part of the
              ESIS, but a structure-controlled application is permitted to act on it.  No # command will  be  output
              if  APPINFO NONE  was  specified.   A # command will occur at most once, and may be preceded only by a
              single L command.

       C      This command indicates that the document was a conforming  document.  If this command  is  output,  it
              will  be  the last command.  An  document is not conforming if it references a subdocument entity that
              is not conforming.

ENVIRONMENT
       SP_BCTF
              If this is set to one of identity, utf-8, euc-jp and sjis, then that BCTF will be used as the  default
              BCTF  for  everything  (including  file input, file output, message output, filenames and command line
              arguments).

SEE ALSO
       The  Handbook, Charles F. Goldfarb
       ISO 8879 (Standard Generalized Markup Language), International Organization for Standardization

       More complete HTML documentation can be found in: /usr/share/doc/sp/index.htm

BUGS
       Only with -t is all ESIS information for LINK is reported.

AUTHOR
       James Clark (jjc@jclark.com).



                                                                                                           NSGMLS(1)
