nvidia-xconfig(1)                              General Commands Manual                             nvidia-xconfig(1)



NAME
       nvidia-xconfig - manipulate X configuration files for the NVIDIA driver

SYNOPSIS
       nvidia-xconfig [ options ]

DESCRIPTION
       nvidia-xconfig is a tool intended to provide basic control over configuration options available in the NVIDIA
       X driver.

       nvidia-xconfig performs its operations in several steps:

       1)     The system X configuration file is found and read into memory.  If no configuration file can be found,
              nvidia-xconfig  generates  one  from scratch using default settings; in this case, nvidia-xconfig will
              automatically determine the name of the X configuration file to create: /etc/X11/xorg.conf  if  the  X
              server in use is X.org or /etc/X11/XF86Config if the X server in use is XFree86.

       2)     The  configuration  in memory is modified to support the NVIDIA driver.  This consists of changing the
              display driver to "nvidia", removing the commands to load the "GLcore" and "dri" modules,  and  adding
              the command to load the "glx" module.

       3)     The  configuration  in  memory  is  modified  according  to the options specified on the command line.
              Please see the NVIDIA README for a description of the NVIDIA X configuration file options.  Note  that
              nvidia-xconfig  does  not  perform any validation of the X configuration file options requested on the
              command line; X configuration file option validation is left for the NVIDIA X driver.

       4)     The configuration is written back to the file from which it was read.  A backup of the  original  con‐
              figuration   is   created   with  ".backup"  appended.   For  example,  if  your  X  configuration  is
              /etc/X11/xorg.conf then nvidia-xconfig will copy it to /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup  before  writing  the
              new configuration.  The --post-tree (-T) option can be used to print the new configuration to standard
              out in tree form instead.  This option is useful to see what nvidia-xconfig will do while leaving  the
              original configuration intact.

       The source code to nvidia-xconfig is released under the GPL and available here:

            ⟨ftp://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/nvidia-xconfig/⟩

       Patches are welcome.

OPTIONS
       -c XCONFIG, --xconfig=XCONFIG
              Use  XCONFIG  as  the  input X config file; if this option is not specified, then the same search path
              used by the X server will be used to find the X configuration file.

       -o OUTPUT-XCONFIG, --output-xconfig=OUTPUT-XCONFIG
              Use OUTPUT-XCONFIG as the output X configuration file; if this option is not specified, then the input
              X configuration filename will also be used as the output X configuration filename.

       -s, --silent
              Run silently; no messages will be printed to stdout, except for warning and error messages to stderr.

       -t, --tree
              Read the X configuration file, print to stdout the X configuration data in a tree format, and exit.

       -v, --version
              Print the nvidia-xconfig version and exit.

       -h, --help
              Print usage information for the common commandline options and exit.

       -A, --advanced-help
              Print  usage  information for the common commandline options as well as the advanced options, and then
              exit.

ADVANCED OPTIONS
       --acpid-socket-path=ACPID-SOCKET-PATH, --no-acpid-socket-path
              Set this option to specify an alternate path to the Linux ACPI  daemon  (acpid)'s  socket,  which  the
              NVIDIA X driver will use to connect to acpid.

       --add-argb-glx-visuals, --no-add-argb-glx-visuals
              Enables or disables support for OpenGL rendering into 32-bit ARGB windows and pixmaps.

       --allow-glx-with-composite, --no-allow-glx-with-composite
              Enable or disable the "AllowGLXWithComposite" X configuration option.

       --busid=BUSID, --no-busid
              This  option  writes  the specified BusID to the device section of the X configuration file.  If there
              are multiple device sections, then it adds the BusID field to each of them.  To add the BusID to  only
              a specific device or screen section, use the '--device' or '--screen' options.

       --preserve-busid, --no-preserve-busid
              By  default, nvidia-xconfig preserves the existing BusID in the X configuration file only if there are
              multiple X screens configured for the X server.  Use '--preserve-busid'  or  '--no-preserve-busid'  to
              force the BusID to be preserved or not preserved, overriding the default behavior.

       --cool-bits=COOL-BITS, --no-cool-bits
              Enable  or  disable the "Coolbits" X configuration option.  Setting this option will enable support in
              the NV-CONTROL X extension for manipulating GPU clock and GPU fan control settings. Default  value  is
              0.  For fan control set it to 4.  WARNING: this may cause system damage and void warranties.

       --composite, --no-composite
              Enable or disable the "Composite" X extension.

       --connected-monitor=CONNECTED-MONITOR, --no-connected-monitor
              Enable  or  disable  the   "ConnectedMonitor" X configuration option; setting this option forces the X
              driver to behave as if the specified display devices are connected to the GPU.

       --connect-to-acpid, --no-connect-to-acpid
              Enable or disable the "ConnectToAcpid" X configuration option.  If this option is set,  the  NVIDIA  X
              driver  will  attempt  to connect to the Linux ACPI daemon (acpid).  Set this option to off to prevent
              the X driver from attempting to connect to acpid.

       --constant-dpi, --no-constant-dpi
              Enable or disable the "ConstantDPI" X configuration option, which controls whether the NVIDIA X driver
              maintains  a constant dots per inch (DPI) value by recomputing the reported size in millimeters of the
              X screen when XRandR changes the size in pixels of the X screen.

       --custom-edid=CUSTOM-EDID, --no-custom-edid
              Enable or disable the  "CustomEDID" X configuration option; setting this option forces the X driver to
              use  the EDID specified.This option is a semicolon-separated list of pairs of display device names and
              filename pairs; e.g "CRT-0:mp\did.bin". Note that a display device name must always be specified  even
              if only one EDID is specified.

       --dac-8bit, --no-dac-8bit
              Most Quadro parts by default use a 10 bit color look up table (LUT) by default; setting this option to
              TRUE forces these graphics chips to use an 8 bit (LUT).

       -d DEPTH, --depth=DEPTH
              Set the default depth to DEPTH ; valid values for DEPTH are 8, 15, 16, 24, and 30.

       --device=DEVICE
              The nvidia-xconfig utility operates on one or more devices in  the  X  configuration  file.   If  this
              option is specified, the device named DEVICE in the X configuration file will be used.  If this option
              is not specified, all the devices within the X configuration file will be used.

       --disable-glx-root-clipping, --no-disable-glx-root-clipping
              Disable or enable clipping OpenGL rendering to the root window via the "DisableGLXRootClipping" X con‐
              figuration option.

       --damage-events, --no-damage-events
              Use OS-level events to notify the X server when a direct-rendering client has performed rendering that
              needs to be composited to the screen.  Improves performance when using GLX with the  composite  exten‐
              sion.

       --preserve-driver-name
              By default nvidia-xconfig changes the  display  driver  to "nvidia" for all configured X screens; this
              option preserves the existing driver name of each X screen.

       -a, --enable-all-gpus
              Configure an X screen on every GPU in the system.

       --exact-mode-timings-dvi, --no-exact-mode-timings-dvi
              Forces the initialization of the X server with the exact timings specified in the ModeLine.

       -E FILE, --extract-edids-from-file=FILE
              Extract any raw EDID byte blocks contained in the specified X log  file  LOG  ;  raw  EDID  bytes  are
              printed  by  the  NVIDIA X driver to the X log as hexidecimal when verbose logging is enabled with the
              "-logverbose 6" X server commandline option.  Any extracted EDIDs are then written as binary  data  to
              individual  files.   These  files  can later be used by the NVIDIA X driver through the "CustomEDID" X
              configuration option.

       --extract-edids-output-file=FILENAME
              When the '--extract-edids-from-file' option is used, nvidia-xconfig writes any  extracted  EDID  to  a
              file,  typically  "edid.bin"  in the current directory.  Use this option to specify an alternate file‐
              name.  Note that nvidia-xconfig, if necessary, will append a unique number to the  EDID  filename,  to
              avoid overwriting existing files (e.g., "edid.bin.1" if "edid.bin" already exists).

       --flatpanel-properties=FLATPANEL-PROPERTIES, --no-flatpanel-properties
              Set  the  flat panel properties. The supported properties are 'dithering' and 'ditheringmode'.  Please
              see the NVIDIA README 'Appendix B. X Config Options' for more details on the possible values and  syn‐
              tax.

       --flip, --no-flip
              Enable or disable OpenGL flipping

       --force-generate
              Force generation of a new X config file, ignoring any existing system X config file.  This is not typ‐
              ically recommended, as things like the mouse protocol, keyboard layout, font paths, etc, are setup  by
              your  Unix  distribution.   While  nvidia-xconfig can attempt to infer these values, it is best to use
              your Unix distribution's X config file for the basis of anything that nvidia-xconfig creates.

       --force-stereo-flipping, --no-force-stereo-flipping
              Normally, stereo flipping is only performed when a stereo drawable  is  visible.  This  option  forces
              stereo flipping even when no stereo drawables are visible.

       --handle-special-keys=WHEN, --no-handle-special-keys
              Specify  when the X server should use the builtin keyboard handler to process special key combinations
              (such as Ctrl+Alt+Backspace); see the X configuration man page for details.  The value of WHEN can  be
              'Always', 'Never', or 'WhenNeeded'.

       --include-implicit-metamodes, --no-include-implicit-metamodes
              Enable or disable the "IncludeImplicitMetaModes" X configuration option.

       --keyboard=KEYBOARD
              When  generating  a new X configuration file (which happens when no system X configuration file can be
              found, or the '--force-generate' option is specified), use KEYBOARD as the keyboard type, rather  than
              attempting  to probe the system for the keyboard type.  For a list of possible keyboard types, see the
              '--keyboard-list' option.

       --keyboard-driver=DRIVER
              In most cases nvidia-xconfig can automatically determine the correct keyboard driver  to  use  (either
              'kbd'  or  'keyboard'). Use this option to override what nvidia-xconfig detects. Typically, if you are
              using an X.Org X server, use 'kdb'; if you are using an XFree86 X server, use 'keyboard'.

       --keyboard-list
              Print to stdout the available keyboard types recognized by the '--keyboard' option, and then exit.

       --layout=LAYOUT
              The nvidia-xconfig utility operates on a Server Layout within  the  X  configuration  file.   If  this
              option is specified, the layout named LAYOUT in the X configuration file will be used.  If this option
              is not specified, the first Server Layout in the X configuration file is used.

       --logo, --no-logo
              Disable or enable the "NoLogo" X configuration option.

       --logo-path=PATH, --no-logo-path
              Set the path to the PNG file to be used as the logo splash screen at X server startup.

       --mode=MODE
              Add the specified mode to the mode list.

       --mode-debug, --no-mode-debug
              Enable or disable the "ModeDebug" X configuration option; when  enabled,  this  option  causes  the  X
              driver to print verbose details about mode validation to the X log file.

       --mode-list=MODELIST
              Remove all existing modes from the X configuration's modelist and add the one(s) specified in the MOD‐
              ELIST string.

       --remove-mode=MODE
              Remove the specified mode from the mode list.

       --metamodes=METAMODES
              Add the MetaMode X configuration option with the value METAMODES which will replace any existing Meta‐
              Mode option already in the X configuration file.

       --mouse=MOUSE
              When  generating  a new X configuration file (which happens when no system X configuration file can be
              found, or the '--force-generate' option is specified), use  MOUSE  as  the  mouse  type,  rather  than
              attempting  to  probe  the  system  for  the  mouse type.  For a list of possible mouse types, see the
              '--mouse-list' option.

       --mouse-list
              Print to stdout the available mouse types recognized by the '--mouse' option, and then exit.

       --multigpu=MULTIGPU, --no-multigpu
              Enable or disable MultiGPU.  Valid values for MULTIGPU are 'Off', 'On', 'Auto', 'AFR', 'SFR', 'AA'.

       --multisample-compatibility, --no-multisample-compatibility
              Enable or disable the use of separate front and back multisample buffers.

       --nvidia-cfg-path=PATH
              The nvidia-cfg library is used to communicate with the NVIDIA kernel module to query basic  properties
              of  every  GPU  in the system.  This library is typically only used by nvidia-xconfig when configuring
              multiple X screens.  This option tells nvidia-xconfig where to look for this library (in case it  can‐
              not find it on its own).  This option should normally not be needed.

       --only-one-x-screen
              Disable all but one X screen.

       --overlay, --no-overlay
              Enable or disable the "Overlay" X configuration option.

       --cioverlay, --no-cioverlay
              Enable or disable the color index overlay.

       --overlay-default-visual, --no-overlay-default-visual
              Enable or disable the "OverlayDefaultVisual" X configuration option.

       --transparent-index=INDEX, --no-transparent-index
              Pixel  to  use as transparent when using color index overlays.  Valid values for TRANSPARENT-INDEX are
              0-255.

       -T, --post-tree
              Like the '--tree' option, but goes through the full process of applying any user requested updates  to
              the X configuration, before printing the final configuration to stdout in a tree format.  Effectively,
              this option just causes the configuration to be printed to stdout as a tree  instead  of  writing  the
              results to file.

       --power-connector-check, --no-power-connector-check
              Disable or enable the "NoPowerConnectorCheck" X configuration option.

       --probe-all-gpus, --no-probe-all-gpus
              Disable or enable the "ProbeAllGpus" X configuration option.

       --query-gpu-info
              Print information about all recognized NVIDIA GPUs in the system.

       --registry-dwords=REGISTRY-DWORDS, --no-registry-dwords
              Enable or disable the "RegistryDwords" X configuration option.

       --render-accel, --no-render-accel
              Enable or disable the "RenderAccel" X configuration option.

       --render-extension, --no-render-extension
              Disable or enable the "NoRenderExtension" X configuration option.

       --screen=SCREEN
              The  nvidia-xconfig utility operates on one or more screens within a Server Layout in the X configura‐
              tion file.  If this option is specified, the screen named SCREEN in the X configuration file  will  be
              used.  If this option is not specified, all screens within the selected Server Layout in the X config‐
              uration file will be used used.

       --separate-x-screens, --no-separate-x-screens
              A GPU that supports multiple simultaneous display devices can either drive these display devices in  a
              single  X screen, or as separate X screens.  When the '--separate-x-screens' option is specified, each
              GPU on which an X screen is currently configured will be updated to have two or more (depending on the
              capabilities  of that GPU) X screens configured.  The '--no-separate-x-screens' option will remove any
              extra configured X screens on each GPU.  Please see the  NVIDIA  README  description  of  "Separate  X
              Screens on One GPU" for further details.

       --x-screens-per-gpu=X-SCREENS-PER-GPU
              A  GPU that supports multiple simultaneous display devices can either drive these display devices in a
              single X screen, or as separate X screens.  When the '--x-screens-per-gpu=<quantity>' option is speci‐
              fied,  each  GPU  on  which  an  X screen is currently configured will be updated to have <quantity> X
              screens. <quantity> has to be greater than 0. Setting <quantity> to 1 is equivalent to specifying  the
              '--no-separate-x-screens'  option.  Please see the NVIDIA README description of "Separate X Screens on
              One GPU" for further details.

       --sli=SLI, --no-sli
              Enable or disable SLI.  Valid values for SLI are 'Off', 'On', 'Auto', 'AFR', 'SFR',  'AA',  'AFRofAA',
              'Mosaic'.

       --stereo=STEREO, --no-stereo
              Enable  or  disable  the  stereo  mode.  Valid values for STEREO are: 0 (Disabled), 1 (DDC glasses), 2
              (Blueline glasses), 3 (Onboard stereo), 4 (multi-display clone mode stereo), 5 (SeeReal  digital  flat
              panel), 6 (Sharp3D digital flat panel), 7 (Arisawa/Hyundai/Zalman/Pavione/Miracube), 8 (3D DLP), 9 (3D
              DLP INV), 10 (NVIDIA 3D VISION), 11 (NVIDIA 3D VISION PRO), 12 (HDMI 3D), 13 (Tridelity SL).

       --thermal-configuration-check, --no-thermal-configuration-check
              Disable or enable the "ThermalConfigurationCheck" X configuration option.

       --tv-standard=TV-STANDARD, --no-tv-standard
              Enable or disable the "TVStandard" X configuration option. Valid values for "TVStandard" are: "PAL-B",
              "PAL-D",  "PAL-G",  "PAL-H",  "PAL-I",  "PAL-K1",  "PAL-M",  "PAL-N",  "PAL-NC",  "NTSC-J",  "NTSC-M",
              "HD480i", "HD480p", "HD720p", "HD1080i", "HD1080p", "HD576i", "HD576p".

       --tv-out-format=TV-OUT-FORMAT, --no-tv-out-format
              Enable or disable the "TVOutFormat" X  configuration  option.  Valid  values  for  "TVOutFormat"  are:
              "SVIDEO" and "COMPOSITE".

       --metamode-orientation=ORIENTATION, --no-metamode-orientation
              Specify the MetaModeOrientation.  Valid values for ORIENTATION are: "RightOf" (the default), "LeftOf",
              "Above", "Below", or "Clone".

       --nvidia-xinerama-info, --no-nvidia-xinerama-info
              Enable or disable providing Xinerama information from the NVIDIA X driver.

       --nvidia-xinerama-info-order=NVIDIA-XINERAMA-INFO-ORDER, --no-nvidia-xinerama-info-order
              Enable or disable the "nvidiaXineramaInfoOrder" X configuration option.  NVIDIA-XINERAMA-INFO-ORDER is
              a  comma-separated  list  of  display device names that describe the order in which nvidiaXineramaInfo
              should be reported.  E.g., "CRT, DFP, TV".

       --ubb, --no-ubb
              Enable or disable the "UBB" X configuration option.

       --use-edid, --no-use-edid
              Enable or disable use of the EDID (Extended Display Identification Data) from your display  device(s).
              The  EDID  will  be  used for driver operations such as building lists of available modes, determining
              valid frequency ranges, and computing the DPI (Dots Per Inch).  This  option  defaults  to  TRUE  (the
              NVIDIA X driver will use the EDID, when available).  It is NOT recommended that you use this option to
              globally disable use of the EDID; instead, use '--no-use-edid-freqs' or '--no-use-edid-dpi' to disable
              specific uses of the EDID.

       --use-edid-dpi, --no-use-edid-dpi
              Enable  or  disable use of the physical size information in the display device's EDID, if any, to com‐
              pute the DPI (Dots Per Inch) of the X screen.  This option defaults to TRUE (the NVIDIA X driver  uses
              the EDID's physical size, when available, to compute the DPI).

       --use-edid-freqs, --no-use-edid-freqs
              Enable  or  disable  use  of the HorizSync and VertRefresh ranges given in a display device's EDID, if
              any.  EDID provided range information will override the HorizSync and VertRefresh ranges specified  in
              the Monitor section.  This option defaults to TRUE (the NVIDIA X driver will use frequency information
              from the EDID, when available).

       --use-display-device=DISPLAY-DEVICE, --no-use-display-device
              Force the X driver to use the display device specified.

       --use-events, --no-use-events
              Enable or disable "UseEvents" X configuration option. Setting this option will enable the X driver  to
              use  the  system  events  in some cases when it is waiting for the hardware. With this option X driver
              sets an event handler and waits for the hardware through the poll() system call. This option  defaults
              to FALSE.

       --virtual=WIDTHxHEIGHT, --no-virtual
              Specify the virtual screen resolution.

       --x-prefix=X-PREFIX
              The  X  installation  prefix;  the  default is /usr/X11R6/.  Only under rare circumstances should this
              option be needed.

       --xinerama, --no-xinerama
              Enable or disable Xinerama.

       --color-space=COLORSPACE, --no-color-space
              Enable or disable the "ColorSpace" X configuration option. Valid values for  "COLORSPACE"  are:  "RGB"
              and "YCbCr444".

       --color-range=COLORRANGE, --no-color-range
              Sets the "ColorRange" X configuration option. Valid values for "COLORRANGE" are: "Full" and "Limited".

       --3dvision-usb-path=3DVISION-USB-PATH
              Set this option to specify the sysfs path of the connected USB dongle.

       --3dvisionpro-config-file=3DVISIONPRO-CONFIG-FILE
              Set  this  option to specify the NVIDIA 3DVisionPro configuration file. Ensure X server has a read and
              write access permissions to this file. NVIDIA X driver stores the hub and the pairing configuration in
              this file to re-use across X restarts. If this option is not provided, 3D VisionPro configuration will
              not be stored.

       --3dvision-display-type=3DVISION-DISPLAY-TYPE, --no-3dvision-display-type
              When NVIDIA 3D Vision is enabled with a non 3D Vision ready display, use this option  to  specify  the
              display  type.  Valid values are: 0 (Assume it is a CRT), 1 (Assume it is a DLP) and 2 (Assume it is a
              DLP TV and enable the checkerboard output).

       --base-mosaic, --no-base-mosaic
              Enable or disable the "BaseMosaic" X configuration option.

       --restore-original-backup
              Restore a backup of the X configuration that was made before any changes were made by  nvidia-xconfig,
              if  such  a backup is available. This type of backup is made by nvidia-xconfig before it modifies an X
              configuration file that it has not previously touched; this is assumed to be an X  configuration  file
              that  predates  the  involvement  of the NVIDIA X driver. As an example, nvidia-xconfig will copy an X
              configuration file at /etc/X11/xorg.conf to /etc/X11/xorg.conf.nvidia-xconfig-original the first  time
              it makes changes to that file.

       --allow-empty-initial-configuration, --no-allow-empty-initial-configuration
              Allow the X server to start even if no connected display devices could be detected.

       --inband-stereo-signaling, --no-inband-stereo-signaling
              Enable or disable the "InbandStereoSignaling" X configuration option.

       --force-yuv-420, --no-force-yuv-420
              Enable  or disable the "ForceYUV420" X configuration option. Setting this option will enable YUV 4:2:0
              compression on HDMI 2.0 4K@60hz modes if possible, even if the current display and  GPU  both  support
              uncompressed RGB 4:4:4 output with these modes.

       --force-composition-pipeline=FORCE-COMPOSITION-PIPELINE, --no-force-composition-pipeline
              Enable or disable the "ForceCompositionPipeline" X configuration option.

       --force-full-composition-pipeline=FORCE-FULL-COMPOSITION-PIPELINE, --no-force-full-composition-pipeline
              Enable or disable the "ForceFullCompositionPipeline" X configuration option.

EXAMPLES
       nvidia-xconfig
              Reads  an  existing  X config file and adapts it to use the NVIDIA driver.  If no X config file can be
              found, a new one is created at /etc/X11/XF86Config with default settings.

       nvidia-xconfig --post-tree --metamode-orientation=clone
              Reads the existing X configuration file, adds the MetaModeOrientation  option,  and  then  prints  the
              resulting config file to standard out in tree form.  The configuration file is not modified.

       nvidia-xconfig --enable-all-gpus
              Examines the system and configures an X screen for each display device it finds.

       nvidia-xconfig --mode=1600x1200
              Adds a 1600x1200 mode to an existing X configuration.

       nvidia-xconfig --mode-list=1600x1200 1280x1024
              Removes  any  existing  modes  from  the  X  configuration  file,  replacing them with "1600x1200" and
              "1280x1024".

       nvidia-xconfig --metamodes=1024x768 +0+0, 1024x768 +1024+0
              Adds the MetaMode "1024x768 +0+0, 1024x768 +1024+0" to the existing X  configuration  file,  replacing
              any existing MetaModes X configuration option.

       nvidia-xconfig --only-one-x-screen --sli=Auto
              Configures the X server to have just one X screen that will use SLI when available.

AUTHOR
       Aaron Plattner
       NVIDIA Corporation

SEE ALSO
       nvidia-settings(1), /usr/share/doc/NVIDIA_GLX-1.0/README.txt

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2005-2010 NVIDIA Corporation.



nvidia-xconfig 375.51                                2017-03-22                                    nvidia-xconfig(1)
