DVITYPE(1)                                     General Commands Manual                                    DVITYPE(1)



NAME
       dvitype, odvitype - translate a dvi file for humans

SYNOPSIS
       dvitype dvi_name[.dvi]

DESCRIPTION
       This  manual  page  is not meant to be exhaustive.  The complete documentation for this version of TeX can be
       found in the info file or manual Web2C: A TeX implementation.

       The dvitype program translates a DVI (DeVice Independent) file output by (for example) tex(1) or  gftodvi(1),
       to  a  file  that humans can read. It also serves as a DVI file-validating program (i.e., if dvitype can read
       it, it's correct) and as an example of a DVI-reading program for future device drivers.

       The output file can include all commands, just the important ones, or none at all (in which case only  errors
       are  reported).  A subinterval of pages may be selected for transliteration; the magnification and resolution
       of the ``output device'' may be changed; and so on. All options are specified with an on-line dialog.

       The .dvi extension is supplied if omitted from dvi_name.  The output goes to stdout.

OPTIONS
       -dpi=REAL
              Set resolution to REAL pixels per inch; default 300.0.

       -magnification=NUMBER
              Override existing magnification with NUMBER.

       -max-pages=NUMBER
              Process NUMBER pages; default one million.

       -output-level=NUMBER
              Verbosity level, from 0 to 4; default 4.

       -page-start=PAGE-SPEC
              Start at PAGE-SPEC, for example `2' or `5.*.-2'.

       -show-opcodes
              Show numeric opcodes (in decimal).

ENVIRONMENT
       The environment variable TEXFONTS is used to search for the TFM files used in the DVI file.  See  tex(1)  for
       the details of the searching.  If TEXFONTS is not set, it uses the system default.

SEE ALSO
       gftype(1), pktype(1).
       Donald E. Knuth, TeX for nroffware.

AUTHORS
       Donald  E.  Knuth  wrote  the  program.   It was published as part of the TeX for nroffware technical report,
       available from the TeX Users Group.  Howard Trickey and Pavel Curtis originally ported it to Unix.



Web2C 2013                                        19 December 1994                                        DVITYPE(1)
