orte-clean(1)                                         Open MPI                                         orte-clean(1)



NAME
       orte-clean - Cleans up any stale processes and files leftover from Open MPI jobs.




SYNOPSIS
       orte-clean [--verbose]
       mpirun --pernode [--host | --hostfile file] orte-clean [--verbose]




OPTIONS
       [-v | --verbose] This argument will run the command in verbose mode and print out the universes that are get‐
       ting cleaned up as well as processes that are being killed.



DESCRIPTION
       orte-clean attempts to clean up any processes and files left over from Open MPI jobs that  were  run  in  the
       past  as well as any currently running jobs.  This includes OMPI infrastructure and helper commands, any pro‐
       cesses that were spawned as part of the job, and any temporary files.  orte-clean will  only  act  upon  pro‐
       cesses  and  files  that belong to the user running the orte-clean command.  If run as root, it will kill off
       processes belonging to any users.

       When run from the command line, orte-clean will attempt to clean up the local node  it  is  run  from.   When
       launched via mpirun, it will clean up the nodes selected by mpirun.



EXAMPLES
       Example 1: Clean up local node only.

       example% orte-clean


       Example  2:  To  clean  up on a specific set of nodes specified on command line, it is recommended to use the
       pernode option.  This will run one orte-clean for each node.

       example% mpirun --pernode --host node1,node2,node3 orte-clean

       To clean up on a specific set of nodes from a file.

       example% mpirun --pernode --hostfile nodes_file orte-clean

       Example 3: Within a resource managed environment like N1GE, SLURM, or Torque.  The following example is  from
       N1GE.

       First, we see that we have two nodes with two CPUs each.

       example% qsh -pe orte 4
       example% mpirun -np 4 hostname
       node1
       node1
       node2
       node2

       Clean up all the nodes in the cluster.

       example% mpirun --pernode orte-clean

       Clean up a subset of the nodes in the cluster.

       example% mpirun --pernode --host node1 orte-clean



SEE ALSO
       orterun(1), orte-ps(1)




1.6.5                                               Jun 26, 2013                                       orte-clean(1)
