OPENVT(1)                                             Linux 1.x                                            OPENVT(1)



NAME
       openvt - start a program on a new virtual terminal (VT).

SYNOPSIS
       openvt [-c vtnumber] [OPTIONS] [--] command

DESCRIPTION
       openvt  will  find  the  first  available VT, and run on it the given command with the given command options,
       standard input, output and error are directed to that terminal. The current search path ($PATH)  is  used  to
       find the requested command. If no command is specified then the environment variable $SHELL is used.

   OPTIONS
       -c, --console=VTNUMBER
              Use  the  given VT number and not the first available. Note you must have write access to the supplied
              VT for this to work;

       -f, --force
              Force opening a VT without checking whether it is already in use;

       -e, --exec
              Directly execute the given command, without forking.  This option is meant for  use  in  /etc/inittab.
              If you want to use this feature in another context, be aware that openvt has to be a session leader in
              order for -e to work.  See setsid(2) or setsid(1) on how to achieve this.

       -s, --switch
              Switch to the new VT when starting the command. The VT of the new command will be made the new current
              VT;

       -u, --user
              Figure  out  the  owner of the current VT, and run login as that user.  Suitable to be called by init.
              Shouldn't be used with -c or -l;

       -l, --login
              Make the command a login shell. A - is prepended to the name of the command to be executed;

       -v, --verbose
              Be a bit more verbose;

       -w, --wait
              wait for command to complete. If -w and -s are used together then openvt will switch back to the  con‐
              trolling terminal when the command completes;

       -V, --version
              print program version and exit;

       -h, --help
              show this text and exit.

       --     end of options to openvt.

NOTE
       If  openvt  is  compiled  with a getopt_long() and you wish to set options to the command to be run, then you
       must supply the end of options -- flag before the command.

EXAMPLES
       openvt can be used to start a shell on the next free VT, by using the command:

       openvt bash


       To start the shell as a login shell, use:

       openvt -l bash


       To get a long listing you must supply the -- separator:

       openvt -- ls -l



HISTORY
       Earlier, openvt was called open.  It was written by Jon Tombs <jon@gtex02.us.es or jon@robots.ox.ac.uk>.  The
       -w idea is from "sam".


SEE ALSO
       chvt(1), doshell(8), login(1)



19 Jul 1996                                             V1.4                                               OPENVT(1)
