OMPI-TOP(1)                                           Open MPI                                           OMPI-TOP(1)



NAME
       ompi-top, orte-top - Diagnostic to provide process info similar to the popular "top" program.

       NOTE: ompi-top, and orte-top are exact synonyms for each other. Using any of the names will result in exactly
       identical behavior.


SYNOPSIS
       ompi-top [ options ]

Options
       ompi-top collects and displays process information in a manner similar to that of the popular "top" program.

       -h | --help
                 Display help for this command

       -pid | --pid <value>
                 The pid of the mpirun whose processes you want information about, or the name of the  file  (speci‐
                 fied  as file:filename) that contains that info. Note that the ompi-top command must be executed on
                 the same node as mpirun to use this option.

       -uri | --uri <value>
                 Specify the URI of the mpirun whose processes you want information about, or the name of  the  file
                 (specified  as file:filename) that contains that info. Note that the ompi-top command does not have
                 to be executed on the same node as mpirun to use this option.

       -rank | --rank <value>
                 The rank of the processes to be monitored. This can consist of a single rank, or a  comma-separated
                 list  of  ranks. These can include rank ranges separated by a '-'.  If this option is not provided,
                 or a value of -1 is given, ompi-top will default to displaying information on all ranks.

       -bynode | --bynode
                 Display the results grouped by node, with each node's processes reported in  rank  order.  If  this
                 option is not provided, ompi-top will default to displaying all results in rank order.

       -update-rate | --update-rate <value>
                 The time (in seconds) between updates of the displayed information. If this option is not provided,
                 ompi-top will default to executing only once.

       -timestamp | --timestamp
                 Provide an approximate time when each sample was taken. This time is approximate as it  only  shows
                 the time when the sample command was issued.

       -log-file | --log-file <value>
                 Log the results to the specified file instead of displaying them to stdout.

DESCRIPTION
       ompi-top  collects and displays process information in a manner similar to that of the popular "top" program.
       It doesn't do the fancy screen display, but does allow you to monitor available process information  (to  the
       limits of the underlying operating system) of processes irrespective of their location.

SEE ALSO
1.6.5                                               Jun 26, 2013                                         OMPI-TOP(1)
