pack200(1)                                      Java Deployment Tools                                     pack200(1)



NAME
       pack200 - Packages a JAR file into a compressed pack200 file for web deployment.

SYNOPSIS
       pack200 [options] output-file JAR-file

       Options can be in any order. The last option on the command line or in a properties file supersedes all
       previously specified options.

       options
              The command-line options. See Options.

       output-file
              Name of the output file.

       JAR-file
              Name of the input file.

DESCRIPTION
       The pack200 command is a Java application that transforms a JAR file into a compressed pack200 file with the
       Java gzip compressor. The pack200 files are highly compressed files that can be directly deployed to save
       bandwidth and reduce download time.

       The pack200 command has several options to fine-tune and set the compression engine. The typical usage is
       shown in the following example, where myarchive.pack.gz is produced with the default pack200 command
       settings:

       pack200 myarchive.pack.gz myarchive.jar


OPTIONS
       -r, --repack
              Produces a JAR file by packing and unpacking a JAR file. The resulting file can be used as an input to
              the jarsigner(1) tool. The following example packs and unpacks the myarchive.jar file:

              pack200 --repack myarchive-packer.jar myarchive.jar
              pack200 --repack myarchive.jar



              The following example preserves the order of files in the input file.

       -g, --no-gzip
              Produces a pack200 file. With this option, a suitable compressor must be used, and the target system
              must use a corresponding decompresser.

              pack200 --no-gzip myarchive.pack myarchive.jar



       -G, --strip-debug
              Strips debugging attributes from the output. These include SourceFile, LineNumberTable,
              LocalVariableTable and LocalVariableTypeTable. Removing these attributes reduces the size of both
              downloads and installations, but reduces the usefulness of debuggers.

       --keep-file-order
              Preserve the order of files in the input file. This is the default behavior.

       -O, --no-keep-file-order
              The packer reorders and transmits all elements. The packer can also remove JAR directory names to
              reduce the download size. However, certain JAR file optimizations, such as indexing, might not work
              correctly.

       -Svalue , --segment-limit=value
              The value is the estimated target size N (in bytes) of each archive segment. If a single input file
              requires more than N bytes, then its own archive segment is provided. As a special case, a value of -1
              produces a single large segment with all input files, while a value of 0 produces one segment for each
              class. Larger archive segments result in less fragmentation and better compression, but processing
              them requires more memory.

              The size of each segment is estimated by counting the size of each input file to be transmitted in the
              segment with the size of its name and other transmitted properties.

              The default is -1, which means that the packer creates a single segment output file. In cases where
              extremely large output files are generated, users are strongly encouraged to use segmenting or break
              up the input file into smaller JARs.

              A 10 MB JAR packed without this limit typically packs about 10 percent smaller, but the packer might
              require a larger Java heap (about 10 times the segment limit).

       -Evalue , --effort=value
              If the value is set to a single decimal digit, then the packer uses the indicated amount of effort in
              compressing the archive. Level 1 might produce somewhat larger size and faster compression speed,
              while level 9 takes much longer, but can produce better compression. The special value 0 instructs the
              pack200 command to copy through the original JAR file directly with no compression. The JSR 200
              standard requires any unpacker to understand this special case as a pass-through of the entire
              archive.

              The default is 5, to invest a modest amount of time to produce reasonable compression.

       -Hvalue , --deflate-hint=value
              Overrides the default, which preserves the input information, but can cause the transmitted archive to
              be larger. The possible values are: true, false, or keep.

              If the value is true or false, then the packer200 command sets the deflation hint accordingly in the
              output archive and does not transmit the individual deflation hints of archive elements.

              The keep value preserves deflation hints observed in the input JAR. This is the default.

       -mvalue , --modification-time=value
              The possible values are latest and keep.

              If the value is latest, then the packer attempts to determine the latest modification time, among all
              the available entries in the original archive, or the latest modification time of all the available
              entries in that segment. This single value is transmitted as part of the segment and applied to all
              the entries in each segment. This can marginally decrease the transmitted size of the archive at the
              expense of setting all installed files to a single date.

              If the value is keep, then modification times observed in the input JAR are preserved. This is the
              default.

       -Pfile , --pass-file=file
              Indicates that a file should be passed through bytewise with no compression. By repeating the option,
              multiple files can be specified. There is no pathname transformation, except that the system file
              separator is replaced by the JAR file separator forward slash (/). The resulting file names must match
              exactly as strings with their occurrences in the JAR file. If file is a directory name, then all files
              under that directory are passed.

       -Uaction , --unknown-attribute=action
              Overrides the default behavior, which means that the class file that contains the unknown attribute is
              passed through with the specified action. The possible values for actions are error, strip, or pass.

              If the value is error, then the entire pack200 command operation fails with a suitable explanation.

              If the value is strip, then the attribute is dropped. Removing the required Java Virtual Machine (JVM)
              attributes can cause class loader failures.

              If the value is pass, then the entire class is transmitted as though it is a resource.

       -Cattribute-name=layout , --class-attribute=attribute-name=action
              See next option.

       -Fattribute-name=layout , --field-attribute=attribute-name=action
              See next option.

       -Mattribute-name=layout , --method-attribute=attribute-name=action
              See next option.

       -Dattribute-name=layout , --code-attribute=attribute-name=action
              With the previous four options, the attribute layout can be specified for a class entity, such as
              class-attribute, field-attribute, method-attribute, and code-attribute. The attribute-name is the name
              of the attribute for which the layout or action is being defined. The possible values for action are
              some-layout-string, error, strip, pass.

              some-layout-string: The layout language is defined in the JSR 200 specification, for example: --class-
              attribute=SourceFile=RUH.

              If the value is error, then the pack200 operation fails with an explanation.

              If the value is strip, then the attribute is removed from the output. Removing JVM-required attributes
              can cause class loader failures. For example, --class-attribute=CompilationID=pass causes the class
              file that contains this attribute to be passed through without further action by the packer.

              If the value is pass, then the entire class is transmitted as though it is a resource.

       -f pack.properties , --config-file=pack.properties
              A configuration file, containing Java properties to initialize the packer, can be specified on the
              command line.

              pack200 -f pack.properties myarchive.pack.gz myarchive.jar
              more pack.properties
              # Generic properties for the packer.
              modification.time=latest
              deflate.hint=false
              keep.file.order=false
              # This option will cause the files bearing new attributes to
              # be reported as an error rather than passed uncompressed.
              unknown.attribute=error
              # Change the segment limit to be unlimited.
              segment.limit=-1



       -v, --verbose
              Outputs minimal messages. Multiple specification of this option will create more verbose messages.

       -q, --quiet
              Specifies quiet operation with no messages.

       -lfilename , --log-file=filename
              Specifies a log file to output messages.

       -?, -h, --help
              Prints help information about this command.

       -V, --version
              Prints version information about this command.

       -Joption
              Passes the specified option to the Java Virtual Machine. For more information, see the reference page
              for the java(1) command. For example, -J-Xms48m sets the startup memory to 48 MB.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values are returned: 0 for successful completion and a number greater than 0 when an error
       occurs.

NOTES
       This command should not be confused with pack(1). The pack and pack200 commands are separate products.

       The Java SE API Specification provided with the JDK is the superseding authority, when there are
       discrepancies.

SEE ALSO
       · unpack200(1)

       · jar(1)

       · jarsigner(1)



JDK 8                                             21 November 2013                                        pack200(1)
