pactl(1)                                       General Commands Manual                                      pactl(1)



NAME
       pactl - Control a running PulseAudio sound server

SYNOPSIS
       pactl [options] COMMAND [ARGS ...]

       pactl --help

       pactl --version

DESCRIPTION
       pactl can be used to issue control commands to the PulseAudio sound server.

       pactl only exposes a subset of the available operations. For the full set use the pacmd(1).

OPTIONS
       -h | --help
              Show help.

       --version
              Show version information.

       -s | --server=SERVER
              Choose the server to connect to.

       -n | --client-name=NAME
              Specify the client name pactl shall pass to the server when connecting.

COMMANDS
       stat [short]
              Dump  a  few statistics about the memory usage of the PulseAudio daemon. (Note: for backwards compati‐
              bility, we also show the output of the info command.  In  order  to  only  show  statistics,  use  the
              optional short argument. In a future version of PA we will make this the default)

       info   Dump some info about the PulseAudio daemon.

       list [short] [TYPE]
              Dump  all  currently loaded modules, available sinks, sources, streams, etc. TYPE must be one of: mod‐
              ules, sinks, sources, sink-inputs, source-outputs, clients, samples, cards. If not specified, all info
              is listed. If short is given, output is in a tabular format, for easy parsing by scripts.

       exit   Asks the PulseAudio server to terminate.

       upload-sample FILENAME [NAME]
              Upload a sound from the specified audio file into the sample cache. The file types supported are those
              understood by libsndfile. The sample in the cache is named after the audio file, unless  the  name  is
              explicitly specified.

       play-sample NAME [SINK]
              Play the specified sample from the sample cache. It is played on the default sink, unless the symbolic
              name or the numerical index of the sink to play it on is specified.

       remove-sample NAME
              Remove the specified sample from the sample cache.

       load-module NAME [ARGUMENTS ...]
              Load the specified module with the specified arguments into  the  running  sound  server.  Prints  the
              numeric index of the module just loaded to STDOUT. You can use it to unload the module later.

       unload-module ID|NAME
              Unload  the  module  instance  identified  by the specified numeric index or unload all modules by the
              specified name.

       move-sink-input ID SINK
              Move the specified playback stream (identified by its numerical index) to the specified sink  (identi‐
              fied by its symbolic name or numerical index).

       move-source-output ID SOURCE
              Move the specified recording stream (identified by its numerical index) to the specified source (iden‐
              tified by its symbolic name or numerical index).

       suspend-sink SINK 1|0
              Suspend or resume the specified sink (which my be specified either by its symbolic  name,  or  by  its
              numeric  index),  depending whether 1 (suspend) or 0 (resume) is passed as last argument. Suspending a
              sink will pause all playback. Depending on the module implementing the sink this might have the effect
              that the underlying device is closed, making it available for other applications to use. The exact be‐
              haviour depends on the module.

       suspend-source SOURCE 1|0
              Suspend or resume the specified source (which my be specified either by its symbolic name, or  by  its
              numeric  index),  depending whether 1 (suspend) or 0 (resume) is passed as last argument. Suspending a
              source will pause all capturing. Depending on the module implementing the source this might  have  the
              effect  that  the  underlying device is closed, making it available for other applications to use. The
              exact behaviour depends on the module.

       set-card-profile CARD PROFILE
              Set the specified card (identified by its symbolic name or numerical index) to the  specified  profile
              (identified by its symbolic name).

       set-default-sink SINK
              Make the specified sink (identified by its symbolic name) the default sink.

       set-sink-port SINK PORT
              Set  the  specified  sink  (identified  by its symbolic name or numerical index) to the specified port
              (identified by its symbolic name).

       set-default-source SOURCE
              Make the specified source (identified by its symbolic name) the default source.

       set-source-port SOURCE PORT
              Set the specified source (identified by its symbolic name or numerical index) to  the  specified  port
              (identified by its symbolic name).

       set-port-latency-offset CARD PORT OFFSET
              Set  a  latency  offset  to  a specified port (identified by its symbolic name) that belongs to a card
              (identified by its symbolic name or numerical index). OFFSET is a number which represents the  latency
              offset in microseconds

       set-sink-volume SINK VOLUME
              Set  the volume of the specified sink (identified by its symbolic name or numerical index). VOLUME can
              be specified as an integer (e.g. 2000, 16384), a linear factor (e.g. 0.4, 1.100), a  percentage  (e.g.
              10%,  100%)  or  a decibel value (e.g. 0dB, 20dB). If the volume specification start with a + or - the
              volume adjustment will be relative to the current sink volume.

       set-source-volume SOURCE VOLUME
              Set the volume of the specified source (identified by its symbolic name or  numerical  index).  VOLUME
              can  be  specified  as  an integer (e.g. 2000, 16384), a linear factor (e.g. 0.4, 1.100), a percentage
              (e.g. 10%, 100%) or a decibel value (e.g. 0dB, 20dB). If the volume specification start with a + or  -
              the volume adjustment will be relative to the current source volume.

       set-sink-input-volume INPUT VOLUME
              Set  the  volume of the specified sink input (identified by its numerical index). VOLUME can be speci‐
              fied as an integer (e.g. 2000, 16384), a linear factor (e.g. 0.4,  1.100),  a  percentage  (e.g.  10%,
              100%)  or a decibel value (e.g. 0dB, 20dB). If the volume specification start with a + or - the volume
              adjustment will be relative to the current sink input volume.

       set-source-output-volume OUTPUT VOLUME
              Set the volume of the specified source output (identified by its numerical index). VOLUME can be spec‐
              ified  as  an  integer  (e.g. 2000, 16384), a linear factor (e.g. 0.4, 1.100), a percentage (e.g. 10%,
              100%) or a decibel value (e.g. 0dB, 20dB). If the volume specification start with a + or - the  volume
              adjustment will be relative to the current source output volume.

       set-sink-mute SINK 1|0|toggle
              Set the mute status of the specified sink (identified by its symbolic name or numerical index).

       set-source-mute SOURCE 1|0|toggle
              Set the mute status of the specified source (identified by its symbolic name or numerical index).

       set-sink-input-mute INPUT 1|0|toggle
              Set the mute status of the specified sink input (identified by its numerical index).

       set-source-output-mute INPUT 1|0|toggle
              Set the mute status of the specified source output (identified by its numerical index).

       set-sink-formats SINK FORMATS
              Set  the  supported  formats of the specified sink (identified by its numerical index) if supported by
              the sink. FORMATS is specified as a semi-colon (;) separated list of formats in the  form  'encoding[,
              key1=value1,  key2=value2,  ...]' (for example, AC3 at 32000, 44100 and 48000 Hz would be specified as
              'ac3-iec61937, format.rate = "[ 32000, 44100, 48000 ]"').

       subscribe
              Subscribe to events, pactl does not exit by itself, but keeps waiting for new events.

AUTHORS
       The PulseAudio Developers <pulseaudio-discuss (at) lists (dot) freedesktop (dot) org>; PulseAudio  is  avail‐
       able from http://pulseaudio.org/

SEE ALSO
       pulseaudio(1), pacmd(1)



Manuals                                                 User                                                pactl(1)
