palmtopnm(1)                                   General Commands Manual                                  palmtopnm(1)



NAME
       palmtopnm - convert a Palm pixmap into a portable anymap

SYNOPSIS
       palmtopnm [-verbose] [-rendition N] [-showhist]
       [-forceplain] [pnmfile]
       palmtopnm -transparent [-verbose] [pnmfile]


DESCRIPTION
       Reads  a Palm pixmap as input, from stdin or pnmfile.  Produces either a portable pixmap as output, or writes
       the value of the transparent color in the Palm pixmap to stdout.

OPTIONS
       -verbose
              Display various interesting information about the input file and process.

       -transparent
              If the Palm pixmap has a transparent color set, the RGB value for that color will be written to stdout
              as  in  the  form  #RRGGBB,  where RR, GG, and BB are two-digit hexadecimal numbers indicating a value
              between 0 and 255.  If no transparent color is set in the bitmap, nothing will be  output.   No  addi‐
              tional output will be generated; no anymap will be output.

       -rendition N
              Palm  pixmaps  may contain several different renditions of the same pixmap, with different depths.  By
              default, palmtopnm operates on the first rendition (rendition number 1) in the  pixmap.   This  switch
              allows  you to operate on a different rendition.  The value must be between 1 and the number of rendi‐
              tions in the pixmap, inclusive.

       -showhist
              Writes a histogram of colors in the input file to stderr.

       -forceplain
              Force the output anymap to be in ASCII 'plain' netpbm format.


SEE ALSO
       pnmtopalm(1), pnm(5)


BUGS
       An additional compression format, "packbits," has been added with PalmOS 4.0.  This package should be updated
       to handle it.

       You  currently  cannot  generate  an alpha mask if the Palm pixmap has a transparent color.  However, you can
       still do this with ppmcolormask with a Netpbm pipe similar to:

       palmtopnm pixmap.palm | ppmcolormask `palmtopnm -transparent pixmap.palm`


AUTHORS
       This program was originally written as Tbmptopnm.c, by Ian Goldberg.  It was heavily modified by Bill Janssen
       to add color, compression, and transparency function.
       Copyright 1995-2001 by Ian Goldberg and Bill Janssen.



                                                  15 December 2000                                      palmtopnm(1)
