pamcut(1)                                      General Commands Manual                                     pamcut(1)



NAME
       pamcut - cut a rectangle out of a PAM, PBM, PGM, or PPM image

SYNOPSIS
       pamcut  [-left  leftcol]  [-right rightcol] [-top toprow] [-bottom bottomrow] [-width width] [-height height]
       [-pad] [-verbose] [ left right width height ] [pnmfile]

       All options may be abbreviated to the shortest unique prefix.


DESCRIPTION
       Reads a PAM, PBM, PGM, or PPM image as input.  Extracts the specified rectangle, and produces the  same  kind
       of image as output.

       There  are  two  ways to specify the rectangle to cut: arguments and options.  Options are easier to remember
       and read, more expressive, and allow you to use defaults.  Arguments were the only way available before  July
       2000.

       If you use both options and arguments, the two specifications get mixed in an unspecified way.

       To use options, just code any mixture of the -left, -right, -top, -bottom, -width, and -height options.  What
       you don't specify defaults.  It is an error to overspecify, i.e. to specify all three of -left,  -right,  and
       -width or -top, -bottom, and -height.

       To  use  arguments,  specify all four of the left, right, width, and height arguments.  left and top have the
       same effect as specifying them as the argument of a -left or -top option,  respectively.   width  and  height
       have  the  same  effect as specifying them as the argument of a -width or -height option, respectively, where
       they are positive.  Where they are not positive, they have the same effect as specifying one  less  than  the
       value as the argument to a -right or -bottom option, respectively.  (E.g.  width = 0 makes the cut go all the
       way to the right edge).  Before July 2000, negative numbers were not allowed for width and height.

       Input is from Standard Input if you don't specify the input file pnmfile.

       Output is to Standard Output.

       If you are splitting a single image into multiple same-size images, pamdice is  faster  than  running  pamcut
       multiple times.


OPTIONS
       -left  The  column  number of the leftmost column to be in the output.  If a nonnegative number, it refers to
              columns numbered from 0 at the left, increasing to the right.  If negative, it refers to columns  num‐
              bered -1 at the right, decreasing to the left.

       -right The column number of the rightmost column to be in the output, numbered the same as for -left.

       -top   The row number of the topmost row to be in the output.  If a nonnegative number it refers to rows num‐
              bered from 0 at the top, increasing downward.  If negative, it refers to columns numbered  -1  at  the
              bottom, decreasing upward.

       -bottom
              The row number of the bottom-most row to be in the output, numbered the same as for -top.

       -width The number of columns to be in the output.  Must be positive.

       -height
              The number of rows to be in the output.  Must be positive.

       -pad   If  the  rectangle  you  specify  is not entirely within the input image, pamcut fails unless you also
              specify -pad.  In that case, it pads the output with black up to the edges you specify.  You  can  use
              this  option  if you need to have an image of certain dimensions and have an image of arbitrary dimen‐
              sions.

              pnmpad also adds borders to an image, but you specify their width directly.


       -verbose
              Print information about the processing to Standard Error.


SEE ALSO
       pnmcrop(1), pnmpad(1), pnmcat(1), pgmslice(1), pnm(5)

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1989 by Jef Poskanzer.



                                                   03 August 2000                                          pamcut(1)
