pamdeinterlace(1)                              General Commands Manual                             pamdeinterlace(1)



NAME
       pamdeinterlace - remove ever other row from a PAM/PNM image


SYNOPSIS
       pamdeinterlace [-takeodd] [-takeeven] N [infile]

       You can use the minimum unique abbreviation of the options.  You can use two hyphens instead of one.  You can
       separate an option name from its value with white space instead of an equals sign.


DESCRIPTION
       pamdeinterlace Removes all the even-numbered or odd-numbered rows from the input PNM or PAM  image.   Specify
       which with the -takeeven and -takeodd options.

       This  can  be useful if the image is a video capture from an interlaced video source.  In that case, each row
       shows the subject 1/60 second before or after the two rows that surround it.  If the subject is moving,  this
       can detract from the quality of the image.

       Because  the  resulting  image is half the height of the input image, you will then want to use pamstretch or
       pnmscale to restore it to its normal height:

       pamdeinterlace myimage.ppm | pamstretch -yscale=2 >newimage.ppm



OPTIONS
       -takeodd
              Take the odd-numbered rows from the input and put them in the output.  The rows are numbered  starting
              at  zero,  so  the  first row in the output is the second row from the input.  You cannot specify both
              -takeeven and -takeodd.


       -takeeven
              Take the even-numbered rows from the input and put them in the output.  The rows are numbered starting
              at  zero,  so  the first row in the output is the first row from the input.  This is the default.  You
              cannot specify both -takeeven and -takeodd.



SEE ALSO
       pamstretch(1), pnmscale(1)


AUTHOR
       put by Bryan Henderson in the public domain in 2001



                                                  11 November 2001                                 pamdeinterlace(1)
