pamstretch(1)                                  General Commands Manual                                 pamstretch(1)



NAME
       pamstretch - scale up a PNM or PAM image by interpolating between pixels

SYNOPSIS
       pamstretch [-xscale=X] [-yscale=Y]
       [-blackedge] [-dropedge] N [infile]

       You can use the minimum unique abbreviation of the options.  You can use two hyphens instead of one.  You can
       separate an option name from its value with white space instead of an equals sign.


DESCRIPTION
       pamstretch scales up pictures by integer values, either vertically, horizontally, or both.   pamstretch  dif‐
       fers  from pnmscale and pnmenlarge in that when it inserts the additional rows and columns, instead of making
       the new row or column a copy of its neighbor, pamstretch makes the new row or column an interpolation between
       its neighbors.  In some images, this produces better looking output.

       To scale up to non-integer pixel sizes, e.g. 2.5, try pamstretch-gen(1) instead.

       Options  let you select alternative methods of dealing with the right/bottom edges of the picture.  Since the
       interpolation is done between the top-left corners of the scaled-up pixels, it's not obvious what to do  with
       the  right/bottom  edges.   The default behaviour is to scale those up without interpolation (more precisely,
       the right edge is only interpolated vertically, and the bottom edge is only interpolated  horizontally),  but
       there are two other possibilities, selected by the blackedge and dropedge options.



PARAMETERS
       The  N  parameter  is  the  scale factor.  It is valid only if you don't specify -xscale or -yscale.  In that
       case, pamstretch scales in both dimensions and by the scale factor N.


OPTIONS
       -xscale=X
              This is the horizontal scale factor.  If you don't specify this, but do specify a vertical scale  fac‐
              tor, the horizontal scale factor is 1.


       -yscale=Y
              This  is the vertical scale factor.  If you don't specify this, but do specify a horizontal scale fac‐
              tor, the vertical scale factor is 1.


       -blackedge
              interpolate to black at right/bottom edges.
       -dropedge
              drop one (source) pixel at right/bottom edges. This is arguably more logical than the  default  behav‐
              iour, but it means producing output which is a slightly odd size.

BUGS
       Usually  produces  fairly ugly output for PBMs. For most PBM input you'll probably want to reduce the `noise'
       first using something like pnmnlfilt(1).

SEE ALSO
       pamstretch-gen(1), pnmenlarge(1), pnmscale(1), pnmnlfilt(1)

AUTHOR
       Russell Marks (russell.marks@ntlworld.com).



                                                  11 November 2001                                     pamstretch(1)
