paplay(1)                                      General Commands Manual                                     paplay(1)



NAME
       paplay - Play back audio files on a PulseAudio sound server

SYNOPSIS
       paplay [options] FILE

       paplay --help

       paplay --version

DESCRIPTION
       paplay  is  a simple tool for playing back audio files on a PulseAudio sound server. It understands all audio
       file formats supported by libsndfile.

OPTIONS
       -h | --help
              Show help.

       --version
              Show version information.

       -v | --verbose
              Enable verbose operation. Dumps the current playback time to STDERR during playback.

       -s | --server=SERVER
              Choose the server to connect to.

       -d | --device=SINK
              Specify the symbolic name of the sink to play this file on.

       -n | --client-name=NAME
              Specify the client name paplay shall pass to the server when connecting.

       --stream-name=NAME
              Specify the stream name paplay shall pass to the server when creating the stream.

       --volume=VOLUME
              Specify the initial playback volume to use. Choose a value between 0 (silent) and 65536 (100% volume).

       --channel-map=CHANNELMAP
              Explicitly choose a channel map when playing back this stream. The argument should be  a  comma  sepa‐
              rated list of channel names: front-left, front-right, mono, front-center, rear-left, rear-right, rear-
              center, lfe, front-left-of-center,  front-right-of-center,  side-left,  side-right,  top-center,  top-
              front-center,  top-front-left, top-front-right, top-rear-left, top-rear-right, top-rear-center, or any
              of the 32 auxiliary channel names aux0 to aux31.

LIMITATIONS
       Due to a limitation in libsndfile paplay currently does not always set the correct channel mapping for  play‐
       back of multichannel (i.e. surround) audio files, even if the channel mapping information is available in the
       audio file.

AUTHORS
       The PulseAudio Developers <pulseaudio-discuss (at) lists (dot) freedesktop (dot) org>; PulseAudio  is  avail‐
       able from http://pulseaudio.org/

SEE ALSO
       pulseaudio(1), pacat(1)



Manuals                                                 User                                               paplay(1)
