PATCH(1)                                       General Commands Manual                                      PATCH(1)



NAME
       patch - apply a diff file to an original

SYNOPSIS
       patch [options] [originalfile [patchfile]]

       but usually just

       patch -pnum <patchfile

DESCRIPTION
       patch  takes  a patch file patchfile containing a difference listing produced by the diff program and applies
       those differences to one or more original files, producing patched versions.  Normally the  patched  versions
       are  put  in  place  of the originals.  Backups can be made; see the -b or --backup option.  The names of the
       files to be patched are usually taken from the patch file, but if there's just one file to be patched it  can
       be specified on the command line as originalfile.

       Upon startup, patch attempts to determine the type of the diff listing, unless overruled by a -c (--context),
       -e (--ed), -n (--normal), or -u (--unified) option.  Context diffs (old-style, new-style,  and  unified)  and
       normal diffs are applied by the patch program itself, while ed diffs are simply fed to the ed(1) editor via a
       pipe.

       patch tries to skip any leading garbage, apply the diff, and then skip any trailing garbage.  Thus you  could
       feed  an  article  or  message containing a diff listing to patch, and it should work.  If the entire diff is
       indented by a consistent amount, if lines end in CRLF, or if a diff is encapsulated  one  or  more  times  by
       prepending  "-  "  to  lines  starting with "-" as specified by Internet RFC 934, this is taken into account.
       After removing indenting or encapsulation, lines beginning with # are ignored, as they are considered  to  be
       comments.

       With  context  diffs,  and  to a lesser extent with normal diffs, patch can detect when the line numbers men‐
       tioned in the patch are incorrect, and attempts to find the correct place to apply each hunk  of  the  patch.
       As  a first guess, it takes the line number mentioned for the hunk, plus or minus any offset used in applying
       the previous hunk.  If that is not the correct place, patch scans both forwards and backwards for  a  set  of
       lines  matching  the context given in the hunk.  First patch looks for a place where all lines of the context
       match.  If no such place is found, and it's a context diff, and the maximum fuzz factor is set to 1 or  more,
       then  another  scan  takes place ignoring the first and last line of context.  If that fails, and the maximum
       fuzz factor is set to 2 or more, the first two and last two lines of context are ignored, and another scan is
       made.  (The default maximum fuzz factor is 2.)

       Hunks  with less prefix context than suffix context (after applying fuzz) must apply at the start of the file
       if their first line number is 1.  Hunks with more prefix context than suffix context  (after  applying  fuzz)
       must apply at the end of the file.

       If  patch cannot find a place to install that hunk of the patch, it puts the hunk out to a reject file, which
       normally is the name of the output file plus a .rej suffix, or # if .rej would generate a file name  that  is
       too  long  (if  even  appending the single character # makes the file name too long, then # replaces the file
       name's last character).

       The rejected hunk comes out in unified or context diff format.  If the input was a normal diff, many  of  the
       contexts  are  simply  null.   The  line numbers on the hunks in the reject file may be different than in the
       patch file: they reflect the approximate location patch thinks the failed hunks belong in the new file rather
       than the old one.

       As  each  hunk  is  completed,  you are told if the hunk failed, and if so which line (in the new file) patch
       thought the hunk should go on.  If the hunk is installed at a different line from the line  number  specified
       in  the  diff,  you are told the offset.  A single large offset may indicate that a hunk was installed in the
       wrong place.  You are also told if a fuzz factor was used to make the match, in which case you should also be
       slightly suspicious.  If the --verbose option is given, you are also told about hunks that match exactly.

       If  no  original  file  origfile is specified on the command line, patch tries to figure out from the leading
       garbage what the name of the file to edit is, using the following rules.

       First, patch takes an ordered list of candidate file names as follows:

        · If the header is that of a context diff, patch takes the old and new file names in the header.  A name  is
          ignored if it does not have enough slashes to satisfy the -pnum or --strip=num option.  The name /dev/null
          is also ignored.

        · If there is an Index: line in the leading garbage and if either the old and new names are both  absent  or
          if patch is conforming to POSIX, patch takes the name in the Index: line.

        · For  the  purpose of the following rules, the candidate file names are considered to be in the order (old,
          new, index), regardless of the order that they appear in the header.

       Then patch selects a file name from the candidate list as follows:

        · If some of the named files exist, patch selects the first name if conforming to POSIX, and the  best  name
          otherwise.

        · If  patch  is not ignoring RCS, ClearCase, Perforce, and SCCS (see the -g num or --get=num option), and no
          named files exist but an RCS, ClearCase, Perforce, or SCCS master is found, patch selects the first  named
          file with an RCS, ClearCase, Perforce, or SCCS master.

        · If  no  named  files  exist,  no RCS, ClearCase, Perforce, or SCCS master was found, some names are given,
          patch is not conforming to POSIX, and the patch appears to create a file,  patch  selects  the  best  name
          requiring the creation of the fewest directories.

        · If  no  file  name results from the above heuristics, you are asked for the name of the file to patch, and
          patch selects that name.

       To determine the best of a nonempty list of file names, patch first takes all the names with the fewest  path
       name  components;  of  those, it then takes all the names with the shortest basename; of those, it then takes
       all the shortest names; finally, it takes the first remaining name.

       Additionally, if the leading garbage contains a Prereq: line, patch takes the first word from  the  prerequi‐
       sites  line  (normally  a  version number) and checks the original file to see if that word can be found.  If
       not, patch asks for confirmation before proceeding.

       The upshot of all this is that you should be able to say, while in a news interface, something like the  fol‐
       lowing:

          | patch -d /usr/src/local/blurfl

       and patch a file in the blurfl directory directly from the article containing the patch.

       If  the patch file contains more than one patch, patch tries to apply each of them as if they came from sepa‐
       rate patch files.  This means, among other things, that it is assumed that the name of the file to patch must
       be  determined  for  each  diff  listing,  and that the garbage before each diff listing contains interesting
       things such as file names and revision level, as mentioned previously.

OPTIONS
       -b  or  --backup
          Make backup files.  That is, when patching a file, rename or copy the original  instead  of  removing  it.
          See the -V or --version-control option for details about how backup file names are determined.

       --backup-if-mismatch
          Back  up  a  file if the patch does not match the file exactly and if backups are not otherwise requested.
          This is the default unless patch is conforming to POSIX.

       --no-backup-if-mismatch
          Do not back up a file if the patch does not match the file  exactly  and  if  backups  are  not  otherwise
          requested.  This is the default if patch is conforming to POSIX.

       -B pref  or  --prefix=pref
          Use  the  simple  method  to  determine  backup  file names (see the -V method or --version-control method
          option), and append pref to a file name when generating its backup file name.  For example, with -B /junk/
          the simple backup file name for src/patch/util.c is /junk/src/patch/util.c.

       --binary
          Write  all  files  in  binary  mode,  except  for standard output and /dev/tty.  When reading, disable the
          heuristic for transforming CRLF line endings into LF line endings.  This option is needed on POSIX systems
          when  applying  patches  generated on non-POSIX systems to non-POSIX files.  (On POSIX systems, file reads
          and writes never transform line endings. On Windows,  reads  and  writes  do  transform  line  endings  by
          default, and patches should be generated by diff --binary when line endings are significant.)

       -c  or  --context
          Interpret the patch file as a ordinary context diff.

       -d dir  or  --directory=dir
          Change to the directory dir immediately, before doing anything else.

       -D define  or  --ifdef=define
          Use the #ifdef ... #endif construct to mark changes, with define as the differentiating symbol.

       --dry-run
          Print the results of applying the patches without actually changing any files.

       -e  or  --ed
          Interpret the patch file as an ed script.

       -E  or  --remove-empty-files
          Remove  output files that are empty after the patches have been applied.  Normally this option is unneces‐
          sary, since patch can examine the time stamps on the header to determine whether a file should exist after
          patching.   However, if the input is not a context diff or if patch is conforming to POSIX, patch does not
          remove empty patched files unless this option is given.  When patch removes a file, it  also  attempts  to
          remove any empty ancestor directories.

       -f  or  --force
          Assume  that  the  user knows exactly what he or she is doing, and do not ask any questions.  Skip patches
          whose headers do not say which file is to be patched; patch files even though they have the wrong  version
          for  the  Prereq:  line in the patch; and assume that patches are not reversed even if they look like they
          are.  This option does not suppress commentary; use -s for that.

       -F num  or  --fuzz=num
          Set the maximum fuzz factor.  This option only applies to diffs that have context,  and  causes  patch  to
          ignore  up to that many lines of context in looking for places to install a hunk.  Note that a larger fuzz
          factor increases the odds of a faulty patch.  The default fuzz factor is 2.  A fuzz factor greater than or
          equal to the number of lines of context in the context diff, ordinarily 3, ignores all context.

       -g num  or  --get=num
          This  option  controls  patch's actions when a file is under RCS or SCCS control, and does not exist or is
          read-only and matches the default version, or when a file is under ClearCase or Perforce control and  does
          not  exist.   If num is positive, patch gets (or checks out) the file from the revision control system; if
          zero, patch ignores RCS, ClearCase, Perforce, and SCCS and does not get the file; and if  negative,  patch
          asks  the  user  whether  to  get the file.  The default value of this option is given by the value of the
          PATCH_GET environment variable if it is set; if not, the default value is zero.

       --help
          Print a summary of options and exit.

       -i patchfile  or  --input=patchfile
          Read the patch from patchfile.  If patchfile is -, read from standard input, the default.

       -l  or  --ignore-whitespace
          Match patterns loosely, in case tabs or spaces have been munged in your files.  Any  sequence  of  one  or
          more  blanks  in  the patch file matches any sequence in the original file, and sequences of blanks at the
          ends of lines are ignored.  Normal characters must still match exactly.  Each line  of  the  context  must
          still match a line in the original file.

       --merge or --merge=merge or --merge=diff3
          Merge a patch file into the original files similar to diff3(1) or merge(1).  If a conflict is found, patch
          outputs a warning and brackets the conflict with <<<<<<< and >>>>>>> lines.  A typical conflict will  look
          like this:

              <<<<<<<
              lines from the original file
              |||||||
              original lines from the patch
              =======
              new lines from the patch
              >>>>>>>

          The  optional  argument  of --merge determines the output format for conflicts: the diff3 format shows the
          ||||||| section with the original lines from the patch; in the merge format, this section is missing.  The
          merge format is the default.

          This option implies --forward and does not take the --fuzz=num option into account.

       -n  or  --normal
          Interpret the patch file as a normal diff.

       -N  or  --forward
          Ignore  patches  that  seem  to  be reversed or already applied. It is only checked if the first hunk of a
          patch can be reversed.  See also -R.

       -o outfile  or  --output=outfile
          Send output to outfile instead of patching files in place.  Do not use this option if outfile  is  one  of
          the  files  to  be patched.  When outfile is -, send output to standard output, and send any messages that
          would usually go to standard output to standard error.

       -pnum  or  --strip=num
          Strip the smallest prefix containing num leading slashes from each file name found in the patch  file.   A
          sequence of one or more adjacent slashes is counted as a single slash.  This controls how file names found
          in the patch file are treated, in case you keep your files in a different directory than  the  person  who
          sent out the patch.  For example, supposing the file name in the patch file was

             /u/howard/src/blurfl/blurfl.c

          setting -p0 gives the entire file name unmodified, -p1 gives

             u/howard/src/blurfl/blurfl.c

          without the leading slash, -p4 gives

             blurfl/blurfl.c

          and  not  specifying  -p at all just gives you blurfl.c.  Whatever you end up with is looked for either in
          the current directory, or the directory specified by the -d option.

       --posix
          Conform more strictly to the POSIX standard, as follows.

           · Take the first existing file from the list (old, new, index) when intuiting file names from diff  head‐
             ers.

           · Do not remove files that are empty after patching.

           · Do not ask whether to get files from RCS, ClearCase, Perforce, or SCCS.

           · Require that all options precede the files in the command line.

           · Do not backup files when there is a mismatch.

       --quoting-style=word
          Use style word to quote output names.  The word should be one of the following:

          literal
                 Output names as-is.

          shell  Quote names for the shell if they contain shell metacharacters or would cause ambiguous output.

          shell-always
                 Quote names for the shell, even if they would normally not require quoting.

          c      Quote names as for a C language string.

          escape Quote as with c except omit the surrounding double-quote characters.

          You  can  specify  the  default  value  of  the --quoting-style option with the environment variable QUOT‐
          ING_STYLE.  If that environment variable is not set, the default value is shell.

       -r rejectfile  or  --reject-file=rejectfile
          Put rejects into rejectfile instead of the default .rej file.  When rejectfile is -, discard rejects.

       -R  or  --reverse
          Assume that this patch was created with the old and new files swapped.  (Yes, I'm afraid that does  happen
          occasionally, human nature being what it is.)  patch attempts to swap each hunk around before applying it.
          Rejects come out in the swapped format.  The -R option does not work with ed diff scripts because there is
          too little information to reconstruct the reverse operation.

          If  the  first hunk of a patch fails, patch reverses the hunk to see if it can be applied that way.  If it
          can, you are asked if you want to have the -R option set.  If it can't, the patch continues to be  applied
          normally.   (Note: this method cannot detect a reversed patch if it is a normal diff and if the first com‐
          mand is an append (i.e. it should have been a delete) since appends always succeed, due to the fact that a
          null context matches anywhere.  Luckily, most patches add or change lines rather than delete them, so most
          reversed normal diffs begin with a delete, which fails, triggering the heuristic.)

       --read-only=behavior
          Behave as requested when trying to modify a read-only file: ignore the potential problem,  warn  about  it
          (the default), or fail.

       --reject-format=format
          Produce  reject  files in the specified format (either context or unified).  Without this option, rejected
          hunks come out in unified diff format if the input patch was of that format, otherwise in ordinary context
          diff form.

       -s  or  --silent  or  --quiet
          Work silently, unless an error occurs.

       --follow-symlinks
          When  looking  for  input files, follow symbolic links.  Replaces the symbolic links, instead of modifying
          the files the symbolic links point to.  Git-style patches to symbolic links will no  longer  apply.   This
          option exists for backwards compatibility with previous versions of patch; its use is discouraged.

       -t  or  --batch
          Suppress questions like -f, but make some different assumptions: skip patches whose headers do not contain
          file names (the same as -f); skip patches for which the file has the wrong version for the Prereq: line in
          the patch; and assume that patches are reversed if they look like they are.

       -T  or  --set-time
          Set  the  modification  and  access times of patched files from time stamps given in context diff headers.
          Unless specified in the time stamps, assume that the context diff headers use local time.

          Use of this option with time stamps that do not include time zones is  not  recommended,  because  patches
          using  local  time  cannot easily be used by people in other time zones, and because local time stamps are
          ambiguous when local clocks move backwards during daylight-saving time adjustments.  Make sure  that  time
          stamps include time zones, or generate patches with UTC and use the -Z or --set-utc option instead.

       -u  or  --unified
          Interpret the patch file as a unified context diff.

       -v  or  --version
          Print out patch's revision header and patch level, and exit.

       -V method  or  --version-control=method
          Use method to determine backup file names.  The method can also be given by the PATCH_VERSION_CONTROL (or,
          if that's not set, the VERSION_CONTROL) environment variable, which is overridden  by  this  option.   The
          method  does  not affect whether backup files are made; it affects only the names of any backup files that
          are made.

          The value of method is like the GNU Emacs `version-control' variable; patch also recognizes synonyms  that
          are more descriptive.  The valid values for method are (unique abbreviations are accepted):

          existing  or  nil
             Make numbered backups of files that already have them, otherwise simple backups.  This is the default.

          numbered  or  t
             Make numbered backups.  The numbered backup file name for F is F.~N~ where N is the version number.

          simple  or  never
             Make  simple  backups.  The -B or --prefix, -Y or --basename-prefix, and -z or --suffix options specify
             the simple backup file name.  If none of these options are given, then a simple backup suffix is  used;
             it is the value of the SIMPLE_BACKUP_SUFFIX environment variable if set, and is .orig otherwise.

          With numbered or simple backups, if the backup file name is too long, the backup suffix ~ is used instead;
          if even appending ~ would make the name too long, then ~ replaces the last character of the file name.

       --verbose
          Output extra information about the work being done.

       -x num  or  --debug=num
          Set internal debugging flags of interest only to patch patchers.

       -Y pref  or  --basename-prefix=pref
          Use the simple method to determine backup file names  (see  the  -V  method  or  --version-control  method
          option),  and  prefix pref to the basename of a file name when generating its backup file name.  For exam‐
          ple, with -Y .del/ the simple backup file name for src/patch/util.c is src/patch/.del/util.c.

       -z suffix  or  --suffix=suffix
          Use the simple method to determine backup file names  (see  the  -V  method  or  --version-control  method
          option),  and  use suffix as the suffix.  For example, with -z - the backup file name for src/patch/util.c
          is src/patch/util.c-.

       -Z  or  --set-utc
          Set the modification and access times of patched files from time stamps given  in  context  diff  headers.
          Unless  specified  in the time stamps, assume that the context diff headers use Coordinated Universal Time
          (UTC, often known as GMT).  Also see the -T or --set-time option.

          The -Z or --set-utc and -T or --set-time options normally refrain from setting a file's time if the file's
          original time does not match the time given in the patch header, or if its contents do not match the patch
          exactly.  However, if the -f or --force option is given, the file time is set regardless.

          Due to the limitations of diff output format, these options cannot update the times of  files  whose  con‐
          tents  have  not  changed.   Also,  if you use these options, you should remove (e.g. with make clean) all
          files that depend on the patched files, so that later invocations of make  do  not  get  confused  by  the
          patched files' times.

ENVIRONMENT
       PATCH_GET
          This  specifies  whether  patch  gets missing or read-only files from RCS, ClearCase, Perforce, or SCCS by
          default; see the -g or --get option.

       POSIXLY_CORRECT
          If set, patch conforms more strictly to the POSIX standard by default: see the --posix option.

       QUOTING_STYLE
          Default value of the --quoting-style option.

       SIMPLE_BACKUP_SUFFIX
          Extension to use for simple backup file names instead of .orig.

       TMPDIR, TMP, TEMP
          Directory to put temporary files in; patch uses the first environment variable in this list that  is  set.
          If none are set, the default is system-dependent; it is normally /tmp on Unix hosts.

       VERSION_CONTROL or PATCH_VERSION_CONTROL
          Selects version control style; see the -v or --version-control option.

FILES
       $TMPDIR/p*
          temporary files

       /dev/tty
          controlling terminal; used to get answers to questions asked of the user

SEE ALSO
       diff(1), ed(1), merge(1).

       Marshall  T.  Rose  and  Einar  A.  Stefferud,  Proposed Standard for Message Encapsulation, Internet RFC 934
       <URL:ftp://ftp.isi.edu/in-notes/rfc934.txt> (1985-01).

NOTES FOR PATCH SENDERS
       There are several things you should bear in mind if you are going to be sending out patches.

       Create your patch systematically.  A good method is the command diff -Naur old new where old and new identify
       the old and new directories.  The names old and new should not contain any slashes.  The diff command's head‐
       ers should have dates and times in Universal Time using traditional Unix format, so that patch recipients can
       use the -Z or --set-utc option.  Here is an example command, using Bourne shell syntax:

          LC_ALL=C TZ=UTC0 diff -Naur gcc-2.7 gcc-2.8

       Tell your recipients how to apply the patch by telling them which directory to cd to, and which patch options
       to use.  The option string -Np1 is recommended.  Test your procedure by pretending  to  be  a  recipient  and
       applying your patch to a copy of the original files.

       You  can  save  people  a lot of grief by keeping a patchlevel.h file which is patched to increment the patch
       level as the first diff in the patch file you send out.  If you put a Prereq: line  in  with  the  patch,  it
       won't let them apply patches out of order without some warning.

       You  can  create  a  file  by  sending  out  a  diff that compares /dev/null or an empty file dated the Epoch
       (1970-01-01 00:00:00 UTC) to the file you want to create.  This only works if the file  you  want  to  create
       doesn't  exist  already  in the target directory.  Conversely, you can remove a file by sending out a context
       diff that compares the file to be deleted with an empty file dated the  Epoch.   The  file  will  be  removed
       unless  patch  is conforming to POSIX and the -E or --remove-empty-files option is not given.  An easy way to
       generate patches that create and remove files is to use GNU diff's -N or --new-file option.

       If the recipient is supposed to use the -pN option, do not send output that looks like this:

          diff -Naur v2.0.29/prog/README prog/README
          --- v2.0.29/prog/README   Mon Mar 10 15:13:12 1997
          +++ prog/README   Mon Mar 17 14:58:22 1997

       because the two file names have different numbers of slashes, and different versions of patch  interpret  the
       file names differently.  To avoid confusion, send output that looks like this instead:

          diff -Naur v2.0.29/prog/README v2.0.30/prog/README
          --- v2.0.29/prog/README   Mon Mar 10 15:13:12 1997
          +++ v2.0.30/prog/README   Mon Mar 17 14:58:22 1997


       Avoid  sending  patches  that compare backup file names like README.orig, since this might confuse patch into
       patching a backup file instead of the real file.  Instead, send patches that compare the same base file names
       in different directories, e.g. old/README and new/README.

       Take  care  not  to  send out reversed patches, since it makes people wonder whether they already applied the
       patch.

       Try not to have your patch modify derived files (e.g. the file configure where there  is  a  line  configure:
       configure.in  in  your  makefile), since the recipient should be able to regenerate the derived files anyway.
       If you must send diffs of derived files, generate the diffs using UTC, have the recipients  apply  the  patch
       with  the -Z or --set-utc option, and have them remove any unpatched files that depend on patched files (e.g.
       with make clean).

       While you may be able to get away with putting 582 diff listings into one file, it  may  be  wiser  to  group
       related patches into separate files in case something goes haywire.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Diagnostics generally indicate that patch couldn't parse your patch file.

       If  the  --verbose  option is given, the message Hmm... indicates that there is unprocessed text in the patch
       file and that patch is attempting to intuit whether there is a patch in that text and, if so,  what  kind  of
       patch it is.

       patch's  exit  status  is 0 if all hunks are applied successfully, 1 if some hunks cannot be applied or there
       were merge conflicts, and 2 if there is more serious trouble.  When applying a set of patches in  a  loop  it
       behooves you to check this exit status so you don't apply a later patch to a partially patched file.

CAVEATS
       Context  diffs  cannot reliably represent the creation or deletion of empty files, empty directories, or spe‐
       cial files such as symbolic links.  Nor can they represent changes to file metadata like  ownership,  permis‐
       sions,  or  whether  one  file  is a hard link to another.  If changes like these are also required, separate
       instructions (e.g. a shell script) to accomplish them should accompany the patch.

       patch cannot tell if the line numbers are off in an ed script, and can detect bad line numbers  in  a  normal
       diff  only when it finds a change or deletion.  A context diff using fuzz factor 3 may have the same problem.
       You should probably do a context diff in these cases to see if the changes made sense.  Of course,  compiling
       without errors is a pretty good indication that the patch worked, but not always.

       patch  usually  produces the correct results, even when it has to do a lot of guessing.  However, the results
       are guaranteed to be correct only when the patch is applied to exactly the same version of the file that  the
       patch was generated from.

COMPATIBILITY ISSUES
       The POSIX standard specifies behavior that differs from patch's traditional behavior.  You should be aware of
       these differences if you must interoperate with patch versions 2.1 and  earlier,  which  do  not  conform  to
       POSIX.

        · In  traditional  patch, the -p option's operand was optional, and a bare -p was equivalent to -p0.  The -p
          option now requires an operand, and -p 0 is now equivalent to -p0.  For maximum compatibility, use options
          like -p0 and -p1.

          Also,  traditional  patch  simply  counted slashes when stripping path prefixes; patch now counts pathname
          components.  That is, a sequence of one or more adjacent slashes now counts as a single slash.  For  maxi‐
          mum portability, avoid sending patches containing // in file names.

        · In  traditional  patch,  backups  were  enabled  by  default.  This behavior is now enabled with the -b or
          --backup option.

          Conversely, in POSIX patch, backups are never made, even when there is a mismatch.   In  GNU  patch,  this
          behavior  is  enabled  with the --no-backup-if-mismatch option, or by conforming to POSIX with the --posix
          option or by setting the POSIXLY_CORRECT environment variable.

          The -b suffix option of traditional patch is equivalent to the -b -z suffix options of GNU patch.

        · Traditional patch used a complicated (and incompletely documented) method to intuit the name of  the  file
          to  be  patched  from the patch header.  This method did not conform to POSIX, and had a few gotchas.  Now
          patch uses a different, equally complicated (but better documented) method that is  optionally  POSIX-con‐
          forming;  we  hope  it has fewer gotchas.  The two methods are compatible if the file names in the context
          diff header and the Index: line are all identical after prefix-stripping.  Your patch is normally compati‐
          ble if each header's file names all contain the same number of slashes.

        · When traditional patch asked the user a question, it sent the question to standard error and looked for an
          answer from the first file in the following list that was a terminal:  standard  error,  standard  output,
          /dev/tty,  and  standard  input.   Now  patch  sends  questions  to  standard output and gets answers from
          /dev/tty.  Defaults for some answers have been changed so that patch never goes into an infinite loop when
          using default answers.

        · Traditional  patch  exited  with  a status value that counted the number of bad hunks, or with status 1 if
          there was real trouble.  Now patch exits with status 1 if some hunks failed, or with 2 if there  was  real
          trouble.

        · Limit  yourself  to the following options when sending instructions meant to be executed by anyone running
          GNU patch, traditional patch, or a patch that conforms to POSIX.  Spaces are significant in the  following
          list, and operands are required.

             -c
             -d dir
             -D define
             -e
             -l
             -n
             -N
             -o outfile
             -pnum
             -R
             -r rejectfile

BUGS
       Please report bugs via email to <bug-patch@gnu.org>.

       If  code  has  been duplicated (for instance with #ifdef OLDCODE ... #else ... #endif), patch is incapable of
       patching both versions, and, if it works at all, will likely patch the wrong one, and tell you that  it  suc‐
       ceeded to boot.

       If  you apply a patch you've already applied, patch thinks it is a reversed patch, and offers to un-apply the
       patch.  This could be construed as a feature.

       Computing how to merge a hunk is significantly harder than using the standard fuzzy algorithm.  Bigger hunks,
       more context, a bigger offset from the original location, and a worse match all slow the algorithm down.

COPYING
       Copyright (C) 1984, 1985, 1986, 1988 Larry Wall.
       Copyright  (C)  1989, 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2009 Free
       Software Foundation, Inc.

       Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual provided the copyright notice and
       this permission notice are preserved on all copies.

       Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this manual under the conditions for verba‐
       tim copying, provided that the entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of  a  permission
       notice identical to this one.

       Permission  is  granted  to  copy and distribute translations of this manual into another language, under the
       above conditions for modified versions, except that this permission notice may be  included  in  translations
       approved by the copyright holders instead of in the original English.

AUTHORS
       Larry  Wall wrote the original version of patch.  Paul Eggert removed patch's arbitrary limits; added support
       for binary files, setting file times, and deleting files; and made it conform better to  POSIX.   Other  con‐
       tributors  include Wayne Davison, who added unidiff support, and David MacKenzie, who added configuration and
       backup support.  Andreas Grünbacher added support for merging.



GNU                                                  2012-09-28                                             PATCH(1)
