pbmpage(1)                                     General Commands Manual                                    pbmpage(1)



NAME
       pbmpage - create a one page test pattern for printing

SYNOPSIS
       pbmpage [-a4] test_pattern


DESCRIPTION
       pbmpage  generates  a  one  page test pattern to print on a sheet of paper, for use in calibrating a printer.
       The test pattern in is PBM format.

       pbmpage produces an image intended for 600 dots per inch printer resolution.

       If you are printing on an HP PPA printer, you can convert the output of this program to a stream that you can
       feed to the printer with pbmtoppa.

       Bear in mind that when you print the test pattern, you are testing not only the printer, but any converter or
       driver software along the printing path.  Any one of these components may adjust  margins,  crop  the  image,
       erase edges, and such.

       If,  due  to addition of margins, the printer refuses to print the image because it is too big, use pnmcut to
       cut the right and bottom edges off the test pattern until it is small enough to print.

       test_pattern is the number of the test pattern to generate, as follows.  The default is 1.

       1      A grid ruled in numbers of pixels.  The outermost rules are exactly at the edges of the paper.

       2      A vertical line segment, one pixel wide, extending 1/2" up from the exact center of the page.

       3      Two diagonal line segments, one starting at the upper left corner of the page, the other starting from
              the lower left corner of the page.  Both extend 1/2" toward the center of the page at 45 degrees.


OPTIONS
       -a4    Generate  an  image  for  A4 (European) paper.  Without this option, pbmpage generates an image for US
              standard paper (8 1/2" wide x 11" high).


SEE ALSO
       pbmtoppa(1), pnmcut(1), pbm(5)


AUTHOR
       Tim Norman.  Copyright (C) 1998.  Licensed under GNU Public License

       Manual page by Bryan Henderson, May 2000.



                                                     01 May 2000                                          pbmpage(1)
