pbmtextps(1)                                   General Commands Manual                                  pbmtextps(1)



NAME
       pbmtextps - render text into a bitmap via postscript

SYNOPSIS
       pbmtextps  [-font  fontfile]  [-fontsize  fontsize]  [-resolution  resolution] [-stroke strokesize] [-verbose
       [text]


DESCRIPTION
       pbmtextps takes a single line of text from the command line and renders it into a PBM image.

       The image is cropped at the top and the right. It is not cropped at the left  or  bottom  so  that  the  text
       begins at the same position relative to the origin. You can use pnmcrop to crop it all the way.


OPTIONS
       -font  By default, pbmtextps uses TimesRoman.  You can specify the font to use with the -font option. This is
              the name of any valid postscript font which is installed on your system.


       -fontsize
              Size of font in points. See the -resolution option for information on how to interpret this size.

              Default is 24 points.


       -resolution
              Resolution in dots per inch of distance measurements pertaining to generation of the image. PBM images
              don't  have  any  inherent resolution, so a distance such as "1 inch" doesn't mean anything unless you
              separately specify what resolution you're talking about. That's what this option does.

              In particular, the meaning of the font size is determined by this resolution. If the font size  is  24
              points and the resolution is 150 dpi, then the font size is 50 pixels.

              Default is 150 dpi.



       -stroke
              Width  of  line to use for stroke font. There is no default stroke width because the letters are solid
              by default.



USAGE
       See pbmtext for usage examples.


SEE ALSO
       pbmtext(1), pnmcut(1), pnmcrop(1), pnmcomp(1), ppmchange(1), pnmrotate(1), ppmlabel(1), pbm(5)


AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 2002 by James McCann




                                                   02 January 2003                                      pbmtextps(1)
