PDFOPEN(1)                                                                                                PDFOPEN(1)



NAME
       pdfopen, pdfclose - open or close a PDF file viewer

SYNOPSIS
       pdfopen [OPTION] FILE.PDF
       pdfclose FILE.PDF

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
               output help and exit

       -v, --version
               output the version number and exit

       -r, --reset_focus
               after  sending  commands  to the PDF viewer, attempt to reset the input focus to the window which had
               focus before the commands were sent

       -viewer <ar9|ar9-tab|ar8|ar7|ar5|xpdf|evince> use (respectively) Adobe Reader 9  (in  a  new  window),  Adobe
               Reader  9  (in  a  new tab of a running AR9, if any), Adobe Reader 8, Adobe Reader 7, Adobe Reader 5,
               xpdf or evince as the PDF viewer program.  Adobe Reader 9 (in a new window) is the default.

RATIONALE
       At certain points of TeX document preparation, many people repeat a  "edit-compile-view"  cycle.   Since  PDF
       viewers  such  as  Adobe's  Acrobat Reader ("acroread") do not automatically refresh the display when the PDF
       file changes, this cycle can be more cumbersome than desired.  The pdfopen program provides  the  ability  to
       automate the reloading of the PDF document when it is changed.

       Note: there seems to be little need for pdfclose under GNU/Linux, since (unlike the situation for MS windows)
       acroread does not lock the PDF file, which would prevent pdftex (or a DVI to PDF converter) from  creating  a
       new version of the PDF output file.  However, pdfclose is provided in case someone finds it useful.

DESCRIPTION
       pdfopen  searches for an instance of the specified (or default) PDF viewer displaying the specified PDF file.
       If there is already an instance of the given viewer displaying the given file, the viewer  is  instructed  to
       reload the file.  If no such instance is found, pdfopen attempts to run the specified viewer on the specified
       document.

       The default viewer is "acroread", which could start any one of  a  number  of  versions  of  Acrobat  Reader,
       depending  on  what  is  installed on your system.  However, the commands to reload the current document vary
       from one version of acroread to another; consequently, if you are using a version of acroread other than AR9,
       you should explicitly specify the viewer program.

       Version 0.83 of pdfopen accepts the following viewer options:
       ar9, ar9-tab, ar8, ar7, ar5, xpdf, and evince.
       The difference between ar9 and ar9-tab is significant when there is no instance of AR9 already displaying the
       requested document.  In this situation, while ar9 will request acroread to create a new instance of  acroread
       (and  thus  open a new window) by using the -openInNewInstance argument, ar9-tab starts acroread without this
       argument; if there is already an instance of acroread running, a new tab will be opened in an  existing  win‐
       dow.

       pdfclose  searches  for  one  of  the above PDF viewers displaying the given file and instructs the viewer to
       "close" the window.  In most cases, the PDF viewer continues to run, possibly now  displaying  just  a  blank
       window.  (This behaviour varies somewhat from one PDF viewer to another.)

PORTABILITY AND AVAILABILITY
       Users  familiar  with  the  Windows  version  of pdfopen might wonder about the lack of a --page <pagenumber>
       option.  Unfortunately, to date no GNU/Linux versions of acroread support  this  feature.   Anyone  having  a
       friend  at  Adobe  is  encouraged  to  ask  them  to implement a "-page <pagenumber>" command line option for
       acroread.

       These programs have been tested on Slackware64 Version 13.37 and a few  other  versions  /  distributions  of
       GNU/Linux.   The  code is reasonably generic and should work out of the box using most recent X11 implementa‐
       tions.  (Reports to the contrary are welcome, particularly if they come with robust fixes.)

       These programs are designed for X11-based systems.  If you somehow find compiled versions of  these  programs
       on a system using another window system, they are very unlikely to be of any use to you.

       Source  and  binaries  of  the  programs  can  be downloaded from CTAN://support/xpdfopen/ (e.g., http://mir‐
       ror.ctan.org/support/xpdfopen).

CAVEATS
       If you use ar9-tab to reload the PDF document and the instance of acroread with the given  document  is  cur‐
       rently displaying some other document, the command causes your document to be displayed, but not reloaded.

       pdfopen  works by looking for a window with a name (window title) matching that expected for the given viewer
       and document.  If for some reason your viewer's window name is not as expected, pdfopen may not work for you.

       With at least AR9 and some window managers, using pdfopen to reload the document gives focus to the  acroread
       window,  even  though  the  mouse  cursor  is  not  necessarily  in  that window.  This can be annoying.  The
       -reset_focus option can be used to deal with this problem.

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Jim Diamond <Jim.Diamond@acadiau.ca>.  I am the current maintainer of the X11
       versions of pdfopen and pdfclose.  Report any bugs you find to me.  Feature enhancement requests are welcome,
       coded enhancements even more so.

       Past authors: Fabrice Popineau wrote the MS-windows versions of pdfopen and pdfclose upon  which  these  pro‐
       grams  were  originally  based.  Taco Hoekwater created the GNU/Linux versions, up to Version 0.61 (including
       some documentation which inspired parts of this man page).




pdfopen 0.83                                         2012-01-28                                           PDFOPEN(1)
