pdfdetach(1)                                   General Commands Manual                                  pdfdetach(1)



NAME
       pdfdetach - Portable Document Format (PDF) document embedded file extractor (version 3.03)

SYNOPSIS
       pdfdetach [options] [PDF-file]

DESCRIPTION
       Pdfdetach lists or extracts embedded files (attachments) from a Portable Document Format (PDF) file.

OPTIONS
       Some of the following options can be set with configuration file commands.  These are listed in square brack‐
       ets with the description of the corresponding command line option.

       -list  List all of the embedded files in the PDF file.  File names are converted to the text encoding  speci‐
              fied by the "-enc" switch.

       -save number
              Save  the  specified  embedded file.  By default, this uses the file name associated with the embedded
              file (as printed by the "-list" switch); the file name can be changed with the "-o" switch.

       -saveall
              Save all of the embedded files.  This uses the file names  associated  with  the  embedded  files  (as
              printed by the "-list" switch).  By default, the files are saved in the current directory; this can be
              changed with the "-o" switch.

       -o path
              Set the file name used when saving an embedded file with the "-save" switch, or the directory used  by
              "-saveall".

       -enc encoding-name
              Sets the encoding to use for text output (embedded file names).  This defaults to "UTF-8".

       -opw password
              Specify the owner password for the PDF file.  Providing this will bypass all security restrictions.

       -upw password
              Specify the user password for the PDF file.

       -v     Print copyright and version information.

       -h     Print usage information.  (-help and --help are equivalent.)

EXIT CODES
       The Xpdf tools use the following exit codes:

       0      No error.

       1      Error opening a PDF file.

       2      Error opening an output file.

       3      Error related to PDF permissions.

       99     Other error.

AUTHOR
       The pdfinfo software and documentation are copyright 1996-2011 Glyph & Cog, LLC.

SEE ALSO
       pdfimages(1), pdffonts(1), pdfinfo(1), pdftocairo(1), pdftohtml(1), pdftoppm(1), pdftops(1), pdftotext(1)



                                                   15 August 2011                                       pdfdetach(1)
