pdfimages(1)                                   General Commands Manual                                  pdfimages(1)



NAME
       pdfimages - Portable Document Format (PDF) image extractor (version 3.03)

SYNOPSIS
       pdfimages [options] PDF-file image-root

DESCRIPTION
       Pdfimages  saves  images from a Portable Document Format (PDF) file as Portable Pixmap (PPM), Portable Bitmap
       (PBM), or JPEG files.

       Pdfimages reads the PDF file PDF-file, scans one or more pages, and writes one PPM, PBM,  or  JPEG  file  for
       each image, image-root-nnn.xxx, where nnn is the image number and xxx is the image type (.ppm, .pbm, .jpg).

OPTIONS
       -f number
              Specifies the first page to scan.

       -l number
              Specifies the last page to scan.

       -j     Normally,  all  images  are  written as PBM (for monochrome images) or PPM (for non-monochrome images)
              files.  With this option, images in DCT format are saved as JPEG files.  All non-DCT images are  saved
              in PBM/PPM format as usual.

       -list  Instead  of  writing the images, list the images along with various information for each image. Do not
              specify an image-root with this option.

              The following information is listed for each image:

              page   the page number containing the image

              num    the image number

              type   the image type:

                     image - an opaque image
                     mask - a monochrome mask image
                     smask - a soft-mask image
                     stencil - a monochrome mask image used for painting a color or pattern

              Note: Tranparency in images is represented in PDF using  a  separate  image  for  the  image  and  the
              mask/smask.   The  mask/smask used as part of a transparent image always immediately follows the image
              in the image list.

              width  image width (in pixels)

              height image height (in pixels)

              Note: the image width/height is the size of the embedded image, not the size the image  will  be  ren‐
              dered at.

              color  image color space:

                     gray - Gray
                     rgb - RGB
                     cmyk - CMYK
                     lab - L*a*b
                     icc - ICC Based
                     index - Indexed Color
                     sep - Separation
                     devn - DeviceN

              comp   number of color components

              bpc    bits per component

              enc    encoding:

                     image - raster image (may be Flate or LZW compressed but does not use an image encoding)
                     jpeg - Joint Photographic Experts Group
                     jp2 - JPEG2000
                     jbig2 - Joint Bi-Level Image Experts Group
                     ccitt - CCITT Group 3 or Group 4 Fax

              interp "yes" if the interpolation is to be performed when scaling up the image

              object ID
                     the image dictionary object ID (number and generation)

       -opw password
              Specify the owner password for the PDF file.  Providing this will bypass all security restrictions.

       -upw password
              Specify the user password for the PDF file.

       -p     Include page numbers in output file names.

       -q     Don't print any messages or errors.

       -v     Print copyright and version information.

       -h     Print usage information.  (-help and --help are equivalent.)

EXIT CODES
       The Xpdf tools use the following exit codes:

       0      No error.

       1      Error opening a PDF file.

       2      Error opening an output file.

       3      Error related to PDF permissions.

       99     Other error.

AUTHOR
       The pdfimages software and documentation are copyright 1998-2011 Glyph & Cog, LLC.

SEE ALSO
       pdfdetach(1) pdffonts(1), pdfinfo(1), pdftocairo(1), pdftohtml(1), pdftoppm(1), pdftops(1), pdftotext(1)



                                                   15 August 2011                                       pdfimages(1)
