pdfinfo(1)                                     General Commands Manual                                    pdfinfo(1)



NAME
       pdfinfo - Portable Document Format (PDF) document information extractor (version 3.03)

SYNOPSIS
       pdfinfo [options] [PDF-file]

DESCRIPTION
       Pdfinfo  prints  the  contents  of the ´Info' dictionary (plus some other useful information) from a Portable
       Document Format (PDF) file.

       The ´Info' dictionary contains the following values:

              title
              subject
              keywords
              author
              creator
              producer
              creation date
              modification date

       In addition, the following information is printed:

              tagged (yes/no)
              form (AcroForm / XFA / none)
              page count
              encrypted flag (yes/no)
              print and copy permissions (if encrypted)
              page size
              file size
              linearized (yes/no)
              PDF version
              metadata (only if requested)

OPTIONS
       -f number
              Specifies the first page to examine.  If multiple pages are requested using the "-f" and "-l" options,
              the  size  of  each  requested  page (and, optionally, the bounding boxes for each requested page) are
              printed.  Otherwise, only page one is examined.

       -l number
              Specifies the last page to examine.

       -box   Prints the page box bounding boxes: MediaBox, CropBox, BleedBox, TrimBox, and ArtBox.

       -meta  Prints document-level metadata.  (This is the "Metadata" stream from the PDF file's Catalog object.)

       -rawdates
              Prints the raw (undecoded) date strings, directly from the PDF file.

       -enc encoding-name
              Sets the encoding to use for text output. This defaults to "UTF-8".

       -listenc
              Lits the available encodings

       -opw password
              Specify the owner password for the PDF file.  Providing this will bypass all security restrictions.

       -upw password
              Specify the user password for the PDF file.

       -v     Print copyright and version information.

       -h     Print usage information.  (-help and --help are equivalent.)

EXIT CODES
       The Xpdf tools use the following exit codes:

       0      No error.

       1      Error opening a PDF file.

       2      Error opening an output file.

       3      Error related to PDF permissions.

       99     Other error.

AUTHOR
       The pdfinfo software and documentation are copyright 1996-2011 Glyph & Cog, LLC.

SEE ALSO
       pdfdetach(1), pdffonts(1), pdfimages(1), pdftocairo(1), pdftohtml(1), pdftoppm(1), pdftops(1), pdftotext(1)



                                                   15 August 2011                                         pdfinfo(1)
