PG_CONFIG(1)                               PostgreSQL 9.3.16 Documentation                              PG_CONFIG(1)



NAME
       pg_config - retrieve information about the installed version of PostgreSQL

SYNOPSIS
       pg_config [option...]

DESCRIPTION
       The pg_config utility prints configuration parameters of the currently installed version of PostgreSQL. It is
       intended, for example, to be used by software packages that want to interface to PostgreSQL to facilitate
       finding the required header files and libraries.

OPTIONS
       To use pg_config, supply one or more of the following options:

       --bindir
           Print the location of user executables. Use this, for example, to find the psql program. This is normally
           also the location where the pg_config program resides.

       --docdir
           Print the location of documentation files.

       --htmldir
           Print the location of HTML documentation files.

       --includedir
           Print the location of C header files of the client interfaces.

       --pkgincludedir
           Print the location of other C header files.

       --includedir-server
           Print the location of C header files for server programming.

       --libdir
           Print the location of object code libraries.

       --pkglibdir
           Print the location of dynamically loadable modules, or where the server would search for them. (Other
           architecture-dependent data files might also be installed in this directory.)

       --localedir
           Print the location of locale support files. (This will be an empty string if locale support was not
           configured when PostgreSQL was built.)

       --mandir
           Print the location of manual pages.

       --sharedir
           Print the location of architecture-independent support files.

       --sysconfdir
           Print the location of system-wide configuration files.

       --pgxs
           Print the location of extension makefiles.

       --configure
           Print the options that were given to the configure script when PostgreSQL was configured for building.
           This can be used to reproduce the identical configuration, or to find out with what options a binary
           package was built. (Note however that binary packages often contain vendor-specific custom patches.) See
           also the examples below.

       --cc
           Print the value of the CC variable that was used for building PostgreSQL. This shows the C compiler used.

       --cppflags
           Print the value of the CPPFLAGS variable that was used for building PostgreSQL. This shows C compiler
           switches needed at preprocessing time (typically, -I switches).

       --cflags
           Print the value of the CFLAGS variable that was used for building PostgreSQL. This shows C compiler
           switches.

       --cflags_sl
           Print the value of the CFLAGS_SL variable that was used for building PostgreSQL. This shows extra C
           compiler switches used for building shared libraries.

       --ldflags
           Print the value of the LDFLAGS variable that was used for building PostgreSQL. This shows linker
           switches.

       --ldflags_ex
           Print the value of the LDFLAGS_EX variable that was used for building PostgreSQL. This shows linker
           switches used for building executables only.

       --ldflags_sl
           Print the value of the LDFLAGS_SL variable that was used for building PostgreSQL. This shows linker
           switches used for building shared libraries only.

       --libs
           Print the value of the LIBS variable that was used for building PostgreSQL. This normally contains -l
           switches for external libraries linked into PostgreSQL.

       --version
           Print the version of PostgreSQL.

       -?, --help
           Show help about pg_config command line arguments, and exit.
       If more than one option is given, the information is printed in that order, one item per line. If no options
       are given, all available information is printed, with labels.

NOTES
       The option --includedir-server was added in PostgreSQL 7.2. In prior releases, the server include files were
       installed in the same location as the client headers, which could be queried with the option --includedir. To
       make your package handle both cases, try the newer option first and test the exit status to see whether it
       succeeded.

       The options --docdir, --pkgincludedir, --localedir, --mandir, --sharedir, --sysconfdir, --cc, --cppflags,
       --cflags, --cflags_sl, --ldflags, --ldflags_sl, and --libs were added in PostgreSQL 8.1. The option --htmldir
       was added in PostgreSQL 8.4. The option --ldflags_ex was added in PostgreSQL 9.0.

       In releases prior to PostgreSQL 7.1, before pg_config came to be, a method for finding the equivalent
       configuration information did not exist.

EXAMPLE
       To reproduce the build configuration of the current PostgreSQL installation, run the following command:

           eval ./configure `pg_config --configure`

       The output of pg_config --configure contains shell quotation marks so arguments with spaces are represented
       correctly. Therefore, using eval is required for proper results.



PostgreSQL 9.3.16                                       2017                                            PG_CONFIG(1)
