PG_DUMP(1)                                 PostgreSQL 9.3.16 Documentation                                PG_DUMP(1)



NAME
       pg_dump - extract a PostgreSQL database into a script file or other archive file

SYNOPSIS
       pg_dump [connection-option...] [option...] [dbname]

DESCRIPTION
       pg_dump is a utility for backing up a PostgreSQL database. It makes consistent backups even if the database
       is being used concurrently.  pg_dump does not block other users accessing the database (readers or writers).

       Dumps can be output in script or archive file formats. Script dumps are plain-text files containing the SQL
       commands required to reconstruct the database to the state it was in at the time it was saved. To restore
       from such a script, feed it to psql(1). Script files can be used to reconstruct the database even on other
       machines and other architectures; with some modifications, even on other SQL database products.

       The alternative archive file formats must be used with pg_restore(1) to rebuild the database. They allow
       pg_restore to be selective about what is restored, or even to reorder the items prior to being restored. The
       archive file formats are designed to be portable across architectures.

       When used with one of the archive file formats and combined with pg_restore, pg_dump provides a flexible
       archival and transfer mechanism.  pg_dump can be used to backup an entire database, then pg_restore can be
       used to examine the archive and/or select which parts of the database are to be restored. The most flexible
       output file formats are the “custom” format (-Fc) and the “directory” format(-Fd). They allow for selection
       and reordering of all archived items, support parallel restoration, and are compressed by default. The
       “directory” format is the only format that supports parallel dumps.

       While running pg_dump, one should examine the output for any warnings (printed on standard error), especially
       in light of the limitations listed below.

OPTIONS
       The following command-line options control the content and format of the output.

       dbname
           Specifies the name of the database to be dumped. If this is not specified, the environment variable
           PGDATABASE is used. If that is not set, the user name specified for the connection is used.

       -a, --data-only
           Dump only the data, not the schema (data definitions). Table data, large objects, and sequence values are
           dumped.

           This option is similar to, but for historical reasons not identical to, specifying --section=data.

       -b, --blobs
           Include large objects in the dump. This is the default behavior except when --schema, --table, or
           --schema-only is specified. The -b switch is therefore only useful to add large objects to dumps where a
           specific schema or table has been requested. Note that blobs are considered data and therefore will be
           included when --data-only is used, but not when --schema-only is.

       -c, --clean
           Output commands to clean (drop) database objects prior to outputting the commands for creating them.
           (Restore might generate some harmless error messages, if any objects were not present in the destination
           database.)

           This option is only meaningful for the plain-text format. For the archive formats, you can specify the
           option when you call pg_restore.

       -C, --create
           Begin the output with a command to create the database itself and reconnect to the created database.
           (With a script of this form, it doesn't matter which database in the destination installation you connect
           to before running the script.) If --clean is also specified, the script drops and recreates the target
           database before reconnecting to it.

           This option is only meaningful for the plain-text format. For the archive formats, you can specify the
           option when you call pg_restore.

       -E encoding, --encoding=encoding
           Create the dump in the specified character set encoding. By default, the dump is created in the database
           encoding. (Another way to get the same result is to set the PGCLIENTENCODING environment variable to the
           desired dump encoding.)

       -f file, --file=file
           Send output to the specified file. This parameter can be omitted for file based output formats, in which
           case the standard output is used. It must be given for the directory output format however, where it
           specifies the target directory instead of a file. In this case the directory is created by pg_dump and
           must not exist before.

       -F format, --format=format
           Selects the format of the output.  format can be one of the following:

           p, plain
               Output a plain-text SQL script file (the default).

           c, custom
               Output a custom-format archive suitable for input into pg_restore. Together with the directory output
               format, this is the most flexible output format in that it allows manual selection and reordering of
               archived items during restore. This format is also compressed by default.

           d, directory
               Output a directory-format archive suitable for input into pg_restore. This will create a directory
               with one file for each table and blob being dumped, plus a so-called Table of Contents file
               describing the dumped objects in a machine-readable format that pg_restore can read. A directory
               format archive can be manipulated with standard Unix tools; for example, files in an uncompressed
               archive can be compressed with the gzip tool. This format is compressed by default and also supports
               parallel dumps.

           t, tar
               Output a tar-format archive suitable for input into pg_restore. The tar format is compatible with the
               directory format: extracting a tar-format archive produces a valid directory-format archive. However,
               the tar format does not support compression. Also, when using tar format the relative order of table
               data items cannot be changed during restore.

       -i, --ignore-version
           A deprecated option that is now ignored.

       -j njobs, --jobs=njobs
           Run the dump in parallel by dumping njobs tables simultaneously. This option reduces the time of the dump
           but it also increases the load on the database server. You can only use this option with the directory
           output format because this is the only output format where multiple processes can write their data at the
           same time.

           pg_dump will open njobs + 1 connections to the database, so make sure your max_connections setting is
           high enough to accommodate all connections.

           Requesting exclusive locks on database objects while running a parallel dump could cause the dump to
           fail. The reason is that the pg_dump master process requests shared locks on the objects that the worker
           processes are going to dump later in order to make sure that nobody deletes them and makes them go away
           while the dump is running. If another client then requests an exclusive lock on a table, that lock will
           not be granted but will be queued waiting for the shared lock of the master process to be released..
           Consequently any other access to the table will not be granted either and will queue after the exclusive
           lock request. This includes the worker process trying to dump the table. Without any precautions this
           would be a classic deadlock situation. To detect this conflict, the pg_dump worker process requests
           another shared lock using the NOWAIT option. If the worker process is not granted this shared lock,
           somebody else must have requested an exclusive lock in the meantime and there is no way to continue with
           the dump, so pg_dump has no choice but to abort the dump.

           For a consistent backup, the database server needs to support synchronized snapshots, a feature that was
           introduced in PostgreSQL 9.2. With this feature, database clients can ensure they see the same data set
           even though they use different connections.  pg_dump -j uses multiple database connections; it connects
           to the database once with the master process and once again for each worker job. Without the synchronized
           snapshot feature, the different worker jobs wouldn't be guaranteed to see the same data in each
           connection, which could lead to an inconsistent backup.

           If you want to run a parallel dump of a pre-9.2 server, you need to make sure that the database content
           doesn't change from between the time the master connects to the database until the last worker job has
           connected to the database. The easiest way to do this is to halt any data modifying processes (DDL and
           DML) accessing the database before starting the backup. You also need to specify the
           --no-synchronized-snapshots parameter when running pg_dump -j against a pre-9.2 PostgreSQL server.

       -n schema, --schema=schema
           Dump only schemas matching schema; this selects both the schema itself, and all its contained objects.
           When this option is not specified, all non-system schemas in the target database will be dumped. Multiple
           schemas can be selected by writing multiple -n switches. Also, the schema parameter is interpreted as a
           pattern according to the same rules used by psql's \d commands (see Patterns), so multiple schemas can
           also be selected by writing wildcard characters in the pattern. When using wildcards, be careful to quote
           the pattern if needed to prevent the shell from expanding the wildcards; see EXAMPLES.

               Note
               When -n is specified, pg_dump makes no attempt to dump any other database objects that the selected
               schema(s) might depend upon. Therefore, there is no guarantee that the results of a specific-schema
               dump can be successfully restored by themselves into a clean database.

               Note
               Non-schema objects such as blobs are not dumped when -n is specified. You can add blobs back to the
               dump with the --blobs switch.

       -N schema, --exclude-schema=schema
           Do not dump any schemas matching the schema pattern. The pattern is interpreted according to the same
           rules as for -n.  -N can be given more than once to exclude schemas matching any of several patterns.

           When both -n and -N are given, the behavior is to dump just the schemas that match at least one -n switch
           but no -N switches. If -N appears without -n, then schemas matching -N are excluded from what is
           otherwise a normal dump.

       -o, --oids
           Dump object identifiers (OIDs) as part of the data for every table. Use this option if your application
           references the OID columns in some way (e.g., in a foreign key constraint). Otherwise, this option should
           not be used.

       -O, --no-owner
           Do not output commands to set ownership of objects to match the original database. By default, pg_dump
           issues ALTER OWNER or SET SESSION AUTHORIZATION statements to set ownership of created database objects.
           These statements will fail when the script is run unless it is started by a superuser (or the same user
           that owns all of the objects in the script). To make a script that can be restored by any user, but will
           give that user ownership of all the objects, specify -O.

           This option is only meaningful for the plain-text format. For the archive formats, you can specify the
           option when you call pg_restore.

       -R, --no-reconnect
           This option is obsolete but still accepted for backwards compatibility.

       -s, --schema-only
           Dump only the object definitions (schema), not data.

           This option is the inverse of --data-only. It is similar to, but for historical reasons not identical to,
           specifying --section=pre-data --section=post-data.

           (Do not confuse this with the --schema option, which uses the word “schema” in a different meaning.)

           To exclude table data for only a subset of tables in the database, see --exclude-table-data.

       -S username, --superuser=username
           Specify the superuser user name to use when disabling triggers. This is relevant only if
           --disable-triggers is used. (Usually, it's better to leave this out, and instead start the resulting
           script as superuser.)

       -t table, --table=table
           Dump only tables (or views or sequences or foreign tables) matching table. Multiple tables can be
           selected by writing multiple -t switches. Also, the table parameter is interpreted as a pattern according
           to the same rules used by psql's \d commands (see Patterns), so multiple tables can also be selected by
           writing wildcard characters in the pattern. When using wildcards, be careful to quote the pattern if
           needed to prevent the shell from expanding the wildcards; see EXAMPLES.

           The -n and -N switches have no effect when -t is used, because tables selected by -t will be dumped
           regardless of those switches, and non-table objects will not be dumped.

               Note
               When -t is specified, pg_dump makes no attempt to dump any other database objects that the selected
               table(s) might depend upon. Therefore, there is no guarantee that the results of a specific-table
               dump can be successfully restored by themselves into a clean database.

               Note
               The behavior of the -t switch is not entirely upward compatible with pre-8.2 PostgreSQL versions.
               Formerly, writing -t tab would dump all tables named tab, but now it just dumps whichever one is
               visible in your default search path. To get the old behavior you can write -t '*.tab'. Also, you must
               write something like -t sch.tab to select a table in a particular schema, rather than the old
               locution of -n sch -t tab.

       -T table, --exclude-table=table
           Do not dump any tables matching the table pattern. The pattern is interpreted according to the same rules
           as for -t.  -T can be given more than once to exclude tables matching any of several patterns.

           When both -t and -T are given, the behavior is to dump just the tables that match at least one -t switch
           but no -T switches. If -T appears without -t, then tables matching -T are excluded from what is otherwise
           a normal dump.

       -v, --verbose
           Specifies verbose mode. This will cause pg_dump to output detailed object comments and start/stop times
           to the dump file, and progress messages to standard error.

       -V, --version
           Print the pg_dump version and exit.

       -x, --no-privileges, --no-acl
           Prevent dumping of access privileges (grant/revoke commands).

       -Z 0..9, --compress=0..9
           Specify the compression level to use. Zero means no compression. For the custom archive format, this
           specifies compression of individual table-data segments, and the default is to compress at a moderate
           level. For plain text output, setting a nonzero compression level causes the entire output file to be
           compressed, as though it had been fed through gzip; but the default is not to compress. The tar archive
           format currently does not support compression at all.

       --binary-upgrade
           This option is for use by in-place upgrade utilities. Its use for other purposes is not recommended or
           supported. The behavior of the option may change in future releases without notice.

       --column-inserts, --attribute-inserts
           Dump data as INSERT commands with explicit column names (INSERT INTO table (column, ...) VALUES ...).
           This will make restoration very slow; it is mainly useful for making dumps that can be loaded into
           non-PostgreSQL databases. However, since this option generates a separate command for each row, an error
           in reloading a row causes only that row to be lost rather than the entire table contents.

       --disable-dollar-quoting
           This option disables the use of dollar quoting for function bodies, and forces them to be quoted using
           SQL standard string syntax.

       --disable-triggers
           This option is relevant only when creating a data-only dump. It instructs pg_dump to include commands to
           temporarily disable triggers on the target tables while the data is reloaded. Use this if you have
           referential integrity checks or other triggers on the tables that you do not want to invoke during data
           reload.

           Presently, the commands emitted for --disable-triggers must be done as superuser. So, you should also
           specify a superuser name with -S, or preferably be careful to start the resulting script as a superuser.

           This option is only meaningful for the plain-text format. For the archive formats, you can specify the
           option when you call pg_restore.

       --exclude-table-data=table
           Do not dump data for any tables matching the table pattern. The pattern is interpreted according to the
           same rules as for -t.  --exclude-table-data can be given more than once to exclude tables matching any of
           several patterns. This option is useful when you need the definition of a particular table even though
           you do not need the data in it.

           To exclude data for all tables in the database, see --schema-only.

       --inserts
           Dump data as INSERT commands (rather than COPY). This will make restoration very slow; it is mainly
           useful for making dumps that can be loaded into non-PostgreSQL databases. However, since this option
           generates a separate command for each row, an error in reloading a row causes only that row to be lost
           rather than the entire table contents. Note that the restore might fail altogether if you have rearranged
           column order. The --column-inserts option is safe against column order changes, though even slower.

       --lock-wait-timeout=timeout
           Do not wait forever to acquire shared table locks at the beginning of the dump. Instead fail if unable to
           lock a table within the specified timeout. The timeout may be specified in any of the formats accepted by
           SET statement_timeout. (Allowed values vary depending on the server version you are dumping from, but an
           integer number of milliseconds is accepted by all versions since 7.3. This option is ignored when dumping
           from a pre-7.3 server.)

       --no-security-labels
           Do not dump security labels.

       --no-synchronized-snapshots
           This option allows running pg_dump -j against a pre-9.2 server, see the documentation of the -j parameter
           for more details.

       --no-tablespaces
           Do not output commands to select tablespaces. With this option, all objects will be created in whichever
           tablespace is the default during restore.

           This option is only meaningful for the plain-text format. For the archive formats, you can specify the
           option when you call pg_restore.

       --no-unlogged-table-data
           Do not dump the contents of unlogged tables. This option has no effect on whether or not the table
           definitions (schema) are dumped; it only suppresses dumping the table data. Data in unlogged tables is
           always excluded when dumping from a standby server.

       --quote-all-identifiers
           Force quoting of all identifiers. This option is recommended when dumping a database from a server whose
           PostgreSQL major version is different from pg_dump's, or when the output is intended to be loaded into a
           server of a different major version. By default, pg_dump quotes only identifiers that are reserved words
           in its own major version. This sometimes results in compatibility issues when dealing with servers of
           other versions that may have slightly different sets of reserved words. Using --quote-all-identifiers
           prevents such issues, at the price of a harder-to-read dump script.

       --section=sectionname
           Only dump the named section. The section name can be pre-data, data, or post-data. This option can be
           specified more than once to select multiple sections. The default is to dump all sections.

           The data section contains actual table data, large-object contents, and sequence values. Post-data items
           include definitions of indexes, triggers, rules, and constraints other than validated check constraints.
           Pre-data items include all other data definition items.

       --serializable-deferrable
           Use a serializable transaction for the dump, to ensure that the snapshot used is consistent with later
           database states; but do this by waiting for a point in the transaction stream at which no anomalies can
           be present, so that there isn't a risk of the dump failing or causing other transactions to roll back
           with a serialization_failure. See Chapter 13, Concurrency Control, in the documentation for more
           information about transaction isolation and concurrency control.

           This option is not beneficial for a dump which is intended only for disaster recovery. It could be useful
           for a dump used to load a copy of the database for reporting or other read-only load sharing while the
           original database continues to be updated. Without it the dump may reflect a state which is not
           consistent with any serial execution of the transactions eventually committed. For example, if batch
           processing techniques are used, a batch may show as closed in the dump without all of the items which are
           in the batch appearing.

           This option will make no difference if there are no read-write transactions active when pg_dump is
           started. If read-write transactions are active, the start of the dump may be delayed for an indeterminate
           length of time. Once running, performance with or without the switch is the same.

       --use-set-session-authorization
           Output SQL-standard SET SESSION AUTHORIZATION commands instead of ALTER OWNER commands to determine
           object ownership. This makes the dump more standards-compatible, but depending on the history of the
           objects in the dump, might not restore properly. Also, a dump using SET SESSION AUTHORIZATION will
           certainly require superuser privileges to restore correctly, whereas ALTER OWNER requires lesser
           privileges.

       -?, --help
           Show help about pg_dump command line arguments, and exit.

       The following command-line options control the database connection parameters.

       -d dbname, --dbname=dbname
           Specifies the name of the database to connect to. This is equivalent to specifying dbname as the first
           non-option argument on the command line.

           If this parameter contains an = sign or starts with a valid URI prefix (postgresql:// or postgres://), it
           is treated as a conninfo string. See Section 31.1, “Database Connection Control Functions”, in the
           documentation for more information.

       -h host, --host=host
           Specifies the host name of the machine on which the server is running. If the value begins with a slash,
           it is used as the directory for the Unix domain socket. The default is taken from the PGHOST environment
           variable, if set, else a Unix domain socket connection is attempted.

       -p port, --port=port
           Specifies the TCP port or local Unix domain socket file extension on which the server is listening for
           connections. Defaults to the PGPORT environment variable, if set, or a compiled-in default.

       -U username, --username=username
           User name to connect as.

       -w, --no-password
           Never issue a password prompt. If the server requires password authentication and a password is not
           available by other means such as a .pgpass file, the connection attempt will fail. This option can be
           useful in batch jobs and scripts where no user is present to enter a password.

       -W, --password
           Force pg_dump to prompt for a password before connecting to a database.

           This option is never essential, since pg_dump will automatically prompt for a password if the server
           demands password authentication. However, pg_dump will waste a connection attempt finding out that the
           server wants a password. In some cases it is worth typing -W to avoid the extra connection attempt.

       --role=rolename
           Specifies a role name to be used to create the dump. This option causes pg_dump to issue a SET
           ROLErolename command after connecting to the database. It is useful when the authenticated user
           (specified by -U) lacks privileges needed by pg_dump, but can switch to a role with the required rights.
           Some installations have a policy against logging in directly as a superuser, and use of this option
           allows dumps to be made without violating the policy.

ENVIRONMENT
       PGDATABASE, PGHOST, PGOPTIONS, PGPORT, PGUSER
           Default connection parameters.

       This utility, like most other PostgreSQL utilities, also uses the environment variables supported by libpq
       (see Section 31.14, “Environment Variables”, in the documentation).

DIAGNOSTICS
       pg_dump internally executes SELECT statements. If you have problems running pg_dump, make sure you are able
       to select information from the database using, for example, psql(1). Also, any default connection settings
       and environment variables used by the libpq front-end library will apply.

       The database activity of pg_dump is normally collected by the statistics collector. If this is undesirable,
       you can set parameter track_counts to false via PGOPTIONS or the ALTER USER command.

NOTES
       If your database cluster has any local additions to the template1 database, be careful to restore the output
       of pg_dump into a truly empty database; otherwise you are likely to get errors due to duplicate definitions
       of the added objects. To make an empty database without any local additions, copy from template0 not
       template1, for example:

           CREATE DATABASE foo WITH TEMPLATE template0;

       When a data-only dump is chosen and the option --disable-triggers is used, pg_dump emits commands to disable
       triggers on user tables before inserting the data, and then commands to re-enable them after the data has
       been inserted. If the restore is stopped in the middle, the system catalogs might be left in the wrong state.

       The dump file produced by pg_dump does not contain the statistics used by the optimizer to make query
       planning decisions. Therefore, it is wise to run ANALYZE after restoring from a dump file to ensure optimal
       performance; see Section 23.1.3, “Updating Planner Statistics”, in the documentation and Section 23.1.6, “The
       Autovacuum Daemon”, in the documentation for more information. The dump file also does not contain any ALTER
       DATABASE ... SET commands; these settings are dumped by pg_dumpall(1), along with database users and other
       installation-wide settings.

       Because pg_dump is used to transfer data to newer versions of PostgreSQL, the output of pg_dump can be
       expected to load into PostgreSQL server versions newer than pg_dump's version.  pg_dump can also dump from
       PostgreSQL servers older than its own version. (Currently, servers back to version 7.0 are supported.)
       However, pg_dump cannot dump from PostgreSQL servers newer than its own major version; it will refuse to even
       try, rather than risk making an invalid dump. Also, it is not guaranteed that pg_dump's output can be loaded
       into a server of an older major version — not even if the dump was taken from a server of that version.
       Loading a dump file into an older server may require manual editing of the dump file to remove syntax not
       understood by the older server. Use of the --quote-all-identifiers option is recommended in cross-version
       cases, as it can prevent problems arising from varying reserved-word lists in different PostgreSQL versions.

EXAMPLES
       To dump a database called mydb into a SQL-script file:

           $ pg_dump mydb > db.sql

       To reload such a script into a (freshly created) database named newdb:

           $ psql -d newdb -f db.sql

       To dump a database into a custom-format archive file:

           $ pg_dump -Fc mydb > db.dump

       To dump a database into a directory-format archive:

           $ pg_dump -Fd mydb -f dumpdir

       To dump a database into a directory-format archive in parallel with 5 worker jobs:

           $ pg_dump -Fd mydb -j 5 -f dumpdir

       To reload an archive file into a (freshly created) database named newdb:

           $ pg_restore -d newdb db.dump

       To dump a single table named mytab:

           $ pg_dump -t mytab mydb > db.sql

       To dump all tables whose names start with emp in the detroit schema, except for the table named employee_log:

           $ pg_dump -t 'detroit.emp*' -T detroit.employee_log mydb > db.sql

       To dump all schemas whose names start with east or west and end in gsm, excluding any schemas whose names
       contain the word test:

           $ pg_dump -n 'east*gsm' -n 'west*gsm' -N '*test*' mydb > db.sql

       The same, using regular expression notation to consolidate the switches:

           $ pg_dump -n '(east|west)*gsm' -N '*test*' mydb > db.sql

       To dump all database objects except for tables whose names begin with ts_:

           $ pg_dump -T 'ts_*' mydb > db.sql

       To specify an upper-case or mixed-case name in -t and related switches, you need to double-quote the name;
       else it will be folded to lower case (see Patterns). But double quotes are special to the shell, so in turn
       they must be quoted. Thus, to dump a single table with a mixed-case name, you need something like

           $ pg_dump -t "\"MixedCaseName\"" mydb > mytab.sql

SEE ALSO
       pg_dumpall(1), pg_restore(1), psql(1)



PostgreSQL 9.3.16                                       2017                                              PG_DUMP(1)
