PG_DUMPALL(1)                              PostgreSQL 9.3.16 Documentation                             PG_DUMPALL(1)



NAME
       pg_dumpall - extract a PostgreSQL database cluster into a script file

SYNOPSIS
       pg_dumpall [connection-option...] [option...]

DESCRIPTION
       pg_dumpall is a utility for writing out (“dumping”) all PostgreSQL databases of a cluster into one script
       file. The script file contains SQL commands that can be used as input to psql(1) to restore the databases. It
       does this by calling pg_dump(1) for each database in a cluster.  pg_dumpall also dumps global objects that
       are common to all databases. (pg_dump does not save these objects.) This currently includes information about
       database users and groups, tablespaces, and properties such as access permissions that apply to databases as
       a whole.

       Since pg_dumpall reads tables from all databases you will most likely have to connect as a database superuser
       in order to produce a complete dump. Also you will need superuser privileges to execute the saved script in
       order to be allowed to add users and groups, and to create databases.

       The SQL script will be written to the standard output. Use the [-f|file] option or shell operators to
       redirect it into a file.

       pg_dumpall needs to connect several times to the PostgreSQL server (once per database). If you use password
       authentication it will ask for a password each time. It is convenient to have a ~/.pgpass file in such cases.
       See Section 31.15, “The Password File”, in the documentation for more information.

OPTIONS
       The following command-line options control the content and format of the output.

       -a, --data-only
           Dump only the data, not the schema (data definitions).

       -c, --clean
           Include SQL commands to clean (drop) databases before recreating them.  DROP commands for roles and
           tablespaces are added as well.

       -f filename, --file=filename
           Send output to the specified file. If this is omitted, the standard output is used.

       -g, --globals-only
           Dump only global objects (roles and tablespaces), no databases.

       -i, --ignore-version
           A deprecated option that is now ignored.

       -o, --oids
           Dump object identifiers (OIDs) as part of the data for every table. Use this option if your application
           references the OID columns in some way (e.g., in a foreign key constraint). Otherwise, this option should
           not be used.

       -O, --no-owner
           Do not output commands to set ownership of objects to match the original database. By default, pg_dumpall
           issues ALTER OWNER or SET SESSION AUTHORIZATION statements to set ownership of created schema elements.
           These statements will fail when the script is run unless it is started by a superuser (or the same user
           that owns all of the objects in the script). To make a script that can be restored by any user, but will
           give that user ownership of all the objects, specify -O.

       -r, --roles-only
           Dump only roles, no databases or tablespaces.

       -s, --schema-only
           Dump only the object definitions (schema), not data.

       -S username, --superuser=username
           Specify the superuser user name to use when disabling triggers. This is relevant only if
           --disable-triggers is used. (Usually, it's better to leave this out, and instead start the resulting
           script as superuser.)

       -t, --tablespaces-only
           Dump only tablespaces, no databases or roles.

       -v, --verbose
           Specifies verbose mode. This will cause pg_dumpall to output start/stop times to the dump file, and
           progress messages to standard error. It will also enable verbose output in pg_dump.

       -V, --version
           Print the pg_dumpall version and exit.

       -x, --no-privileges, --no-acl
           Prevent dumping of access privileges (grant/revoke commands).

       --binary-upgrade
           This option is for use by in-place upgrade utilities. Its use for other purposes is not recommended or
           supported. The behavior of the option may change in future releases without notice.

       --column-inserts, --attribute-inserts
           Dump data as INSERT commands with explicit column names (INSERT INTO table (column, ...) VALUES ...).
           This will make restoration very slow; it is mainly useful for making dumps that can be loaded into
           non-PostgreSQL databases.

       --disable-dollar-quoting
           This option disables the use of dollar quoting for function bodies, and forces them to be quoted using
           SQL standard string syntax.

       --disable-triggers
           This option is relevant only when creating a data-only dump. It instructs pg_dumpall to include commands
           to temporarily disable triggers on the target tables while the data is reloaded. Use this if you have
           referential integrity checks or other triggers on the tables that you do not want to invoke during data
           reload.

           Presently, the commands emitted for --disable-triggers must be done as superuser. So, you should also
           specify a superuser name with -S, or preferably be careful to start the resulting script as a superuser.

       --inserts
           Dump data as INSERT commands (rather than COPY). This will make restoration very slow; it is mainly
           useful for making dumps that can be loaded into non-PostgreSQL databases. Note that the restore might
           fail altogether if you have rearranged column order. The --column-inserts option is safer, though even
           slower.

       --lock-wait-timeout=timeout
           Do not wait forever to acquire shared table locks at the beginning of the dump. Instead, fail if unable
           to lock a table within the specified timeout. The timeout may be specified in any of the formats accepted
           by SET statement_timeout. Allowed values vary depending on the server version you are dumping from, but
           an integer number of milliseconds is accepted by all versions since 7.3. This option is ignored when
           dumping from a pre-7.3 server.

       --no-security-labels
           Do not dump security labels.

       --no-tablespaces
           Do not output commands to create tablespaces nor select tablespaces for objects. With this option, all
           objects will be created in whichever tablespace is the default during restore.

       --no-unlogged-table-data
           Do not dump the contents of unlogged tables. This option has no effect on whether or not the table
           definitions (schema) are dumped; it only suppresses dumping the table data.

       --quote-all-identifiers
           Force quoting of all identifiers. This option is recommended when dumping a database from a server whose
           PostgreSQL major version is different from pg_dumpall's, or when the output is intended to be loaded into
           a server of a different major version. By default, pg_dumpall quotes only identifiers that are reserved
           words in its own major version. This sometimes results in compatibility issues when dealing with servers
           of other versions that may have slightly different sets of reserved words. Using --quote-all-identifiers
           prevents such issues, at the price of a harder-to-read dump script.

       --use-set-session-authorization
           Output SQL-standard SET SESSION AUTHORIZATION commands instead of ALTER OWNER commands to determine
           object ownership. This makes the dump more standards compatible, but depending on the history of the
           objects in the dump, might not restore properly.

       -?, --help
           Show help about pg_dumpall command line arguments, and exit.

       The following command-line options control the database connection parameters.

       -d connstr, --dbname=connstr
           Specifies parameters used to connect to the server, as a connection string. See Section 31.1.1,
           “Connection Strings”, in the documentation for more information.

           The option is called --dbname for consistency with other client applications, but because pg_dumpall
           needs to connect to many databases, database name in the connection string will be ignored. Use -l option
           to specify the name of the database used to dump global objects and to discover what other databases
           should be dumped.

       -h host, --host=host
           Specifies the host name of the machine on which the database server is running. If the value begins with
           a slash, it is used as the directory for the Unix domain socket. The default is taken from the PGHOST
           environment variable, if set, else a Unix domain socket connection is attempted.

       -l dbname, --database=dbname
           Specifies the name of the database to connect to to dump global objects and discover what other databases
           should be dumped. If not specified, the postgres database will be used, and if that does not exist,
           template1 will be used.

       -p port, --port=port
           Specifies the TCP port or local Unix domain socket file extension on which the server is listening for
           connections. Defaults to the PGPORT environment variable, if set, or a compiled-in default.

       -U username, --username=username
           User name to connect as.

       -w, --no-password
           Never issue a password prompt. If the server requires password authentication and a password is not
           available by other means such as a .pgpass file, the connection attempt will fail. This option can be
           useful in batch jobs and scripts where no user is present to enter a password.

       -W, --password
           Force pg_dumpall to prompt for a password before connecting to a database.

           This option is never essential, since pg_dumpall will automatically prompt for a password if the server
           demands password authentication. However, pg_dumpall will waste a connection attempt finding out that the
           server wants a password. In some cases it is worth typing -W to avoid the extra connection attempt.

           Note that the password prompt will occur again for each database to be dumped. Usually, it's better to
           set up a ~/.pgpass file than to rely on manual password entry.

       --role=rolename
           Specifies a role name to be used to create the dump. This option causes pg_dumpall to issue a SET
           ROLErolename command after connecting to the database. It is useful when the authenticated user
           (specified by -U) lacks privileges needed by pg_dumpall, but can switch to a role with the required
           rights. Some installations have a policy against logging in directly as a superuser, and use of this
           option allows dumps to be made without violating the policy.

ENVIRONMENT
       PGHOST, PGOPTIONS, PGPORT, PGUSER
           Default connection parameters

       This utility, like most other PostgreSQL utilities, also uses the environment variables supported by libpq
       (see Section 31.14, “Environment Variables”, in the documentation).

NOTES
       Since pg_dumpall calls pg_dump internally, some diagnostic messages will refer to pg_dump.

       Once restored, it is wise to run ANALYZE on each database so the optimizer has useful statistics. You can
       also run vacuumdb -a -z to analyze all databases.

       pg_dumpall requires all needed tablespace directories to exist before the restore; otherwise, database
       creation will fail for databases in non-default locations.

EXAMPLES
       To dump all databases:

           $ pg_dumpall > db.out

       To reload database(s) from this file, you can use:

           $ psql -f db.out postgres

       (It is not important to which database you connect here since the script file created by pg_dumpall will
       contain the appropriate commands to create and connect to the saved databases.)

SEE ALSO
       Check pg_dump(1) for details on possible error conditions.



PostgreSQL 9.3.16                                       2017                                           PG_DUMPALL(1)
