PG_RESETXLOG(1)                            PostgreSQL 9.3.16 Documentation                           PG_RESETXLOG(1)



NAME
       pg_resetxlog - reset the write-ahead log and other control information of a PostgreSQL database cluster

SYNOPSIS
       pg_resetxlog [-f] [-n] [-o oid] [-x xid] [-e xid_epoch] [-m mxid,mxid] [-O mxoff] [-l xlogfile] datadir

DESCRIPTION
       pg_resetxlog clears the write-ahead log (WAL) and optionally resets some other control information stored in
       the pg_control file. This function is sometimes needed if these files have become corrupted. It should be
       used only as a last resort, when the server will not start due to such corruption.

       After running this command, it should be possible to start the server, but bear in mind that the database
       might contain inconsistent data due to partially-committed transactions. You should immediately dump your
       data, run initdb, and reload. After reload, check for inconsistencies and repair as needed.

       This utility can only be run by the user who installed the server, because it requires read/write access to
       the data directory. For safety reasons, you must specify the data directory on the command line.
       pg_resetxlog does not use the environment variable PGDATA.

       If pg_resetxlog complains that it cannot determine valid data for pg_control, you can force it to proceed
       anyway by specifying the -f (force) option. In this case plausible values will be substituted for the missing
       data. Most of the fields can be expected to match, but manual assistance might be needed for the next OID,
       next transaction ID and epoch, next multitransaction ID and offset, and WAL starting address fields. These
       fields can be set using the options discussed below. If you are not able to determine correct values for all
       these fields, -f can still be used, but the recovered database must be treated with even more suspicion than
       usual: an immediate dump and reload is imperative.  Do not execute any data-modifying operations in the
       database before you dump, as any such action is likely to make the corruption worse.

       The -o, -x, -e, -m, -O, and -l options allow the next OID, next transaction ID, next transaction ID's epoch,
       next and oldest multitransaction ID, next multitransaction offset, and WAL starting address values to be set
       manually. These are only needed when pg_resetxlog is unable to determine appropriate values by reading
       pg_control. Safe values can be determined as follows:

       ·   A safe value for the next transaction ID (-x) can be determined by looking for the numerically largest
           file name in the directory pg_clog under the data directory, adding one, and then multiplying by 1048576.
           Note that the file names are in hexadecimal. It is usually easiest to specify the option value in
           hexadecimal too. For example, if 0011 is the largest entry in pg_clog, -x 0x1200000 will work (five
           trailing zeroes provide the proper multiplier).

       ·   A safe value for the next multitransaction ID (first part of -m) can be determined by looking for the
           numerically largest file name in the directory pg_multixact/offsets under the data directory, adding one,
           and then multiplying by 65536. Conversely, a safe value for the oldest multitransaction ID (second part
           of -m) can be determined by looking for the numerically smallest file name in the same directory and
           multiplying by 65536. As above, the file names are in hexadecimal, so the easiest way to do this is to
           specify the option value in hexadecimal and append four zeroes.

       ·   A safe value for the next multitransaction offset (-O) can be determined by looking for the numerically
           largest file name in the directory pg_multixact/members under the data directory, adding one, and then
           multiplying by 52352. As above, the file names are in hexadecimal. There is no simple recipe such as the
           ones above of appending zeroes.

       ·   The WAL starting address (-l) should be larger than any WAL segment file name currently existing in the
           directory pg_xlog under the data directory. These names are also in hexadecimal and have three parts. The
           first part is the “timeline ID” and should usually be kept the same. For example, if
           00000001000000320000004A is the largest entry in pg_xlog, use -l 00000001000000320000004B or higher.

               Note
               pg_resetxlog itself looks at the files in pg_xlog and chooses a default -l setting beyond the last
               existing file name. Therefore, manual adjustment of -l should only be needed if you are aware of WAL
               segment files that are not currently present in pg_xlog, such as entries in an offline archive; or if
               the contents of pg_xlog have been lost entirely.

       ·   There is no comparably easy way to determine a next OID that's beyond the largest one in the database,
           but fortunately it is not critical to get the next-OID setting right.

       ·   The transaction ID epoch is not actually stored anywhere in the database except in the field that is set
           by pg_resetxlog, so any value will work so far as the database itself is concerned. You might need to
           adjust this value to ensure that replication systems such as Slony-I work correctly — if so, an
           appropriate value should be obtainable from the state of the downstream replicated database.

       The -n (no operation) option instructs pg_resetxlog to print the values reconstructed from pg_control and
       then exit without modifying anything. This is mainly a debugging tool, but can be useful as a sanity check
       before allowing pg_resetxlog to proceed for real.

       The -V and --version options print the pg_resetxlog version and exit. The options -?  and --help show
       supported arguments, and exit.

NOTES
       This command must not be used when the server is running.  pg_resetxlog will refuse to start up if it finds a
       server lock file in the data directory. If the server crashed then a lock file might have been left behind;
       in that case you can remove the lock file to allow pg_resetxlog to run. But before you do so, make doubly
       certain that there is no server process still alive.



PostgreSQL 9.3.16                                       2017                                         PG_RESETXLOG(1)
