pgmtoppm(1)                                    General Commands Manual                                   pgmtoppm(1)



NAME
       pgmtoppm - colorize a portable graymap into a portable pixmap

SYNOPSIS
       pgmtoppm colorspec [pgmfile]
       pgmtoppm colorspec1-colorspec2 [pgmfile]
       pgmtoppm -map mapfile [pgmfile]


DESCRIPTION
       Reads a PGM as input.  Produces a PPM file as output with a specific color assigned to each gray value in the
       input.

       If you specify one color argument, black in the pgm file stays black and white in the pgm file turns into the
       specified  color in the ppm file.  Gray values in between are linearly mapped to differing intensities of the
       specified color.

       If you specify two color arguments (separated by a dash), then black gets mapped to the first color and white
       gets  mapped  to the second and gray values in between get mapped linearly (across a three dimensional space)
       to colors in between.

       You can specify the color in one of five ways:

       o      A name, from an X11-style color names file.

       o      An X11-style hexadecimal specifier: rgb:r/g/b, where r g and b are each 1- to 4-digit hexadecimal num‐
              bers.

       o      An  X11-style  decimal specifier: rgbi:r/g/b, where r g and b are floating point numbers between 0 and
              1.

       o      For backwards compatibility, an  old-X11-style  hexadecimal  number:  #rgb,  #rrggbb,  #rrrgggbbb,  or
              #rrrrggggbbbb.

       o      For  backwards  compatibility,  a  triplet  of numbers separated by commas: r,g,b, where r g and b are
              floating point numbers between 0 and 1.  (This style was added before MIT came  up  with  the  similar
              rgbi style.)

       Also, you can specify an entire colormap with the -map option.  The mapfile is just a ppm file; it can be any
       shape, all that matters is the colors in it and their order.  In this case, black gets mapped into the  first
       color  in the map file, and white gets mapped to the last and gray values in between are mapped linearly onto
       the sequence of colors in between.


NOTE - MAXVAL
       The "maxval," or depth, of the output image is the same as that of the input image.  The maxval  affects  the
       color  resolution, which may cause quantization errors you don't anticipate in your output.  For example, you
       have a simple black and white image (in fact, let's say it's a PBM file, since pgmtoppm, like all Netpbm pro‐
       grams,  can accept a PBM file as if it were PGM.  The maxval of this image is 1, because only two gray values
       are needed: black and white.  Run this image through pgmtoppm 0f/00/00 to try to make  the  image  black  and
       faint red.  Because the output image will also have maxval 1, there is no such thing as faint red.  It has to
       be either full-on red or black.  pgmtoppm rounds the color 0f/00/00 down to black,  and  you  get  an  output
       image that is nothing but black.

       The fix is easy:  Pass the input through pnmdepth on the way into pgmtoppm to increase its depth to something
       that would give you the resolution you need to get your desired color.  In this case, pnmdepth  16  would  do
       it.  Or spare yourself the unnecessary thinking and just say pnmdepth 255 .


SEE ALSO
       pnmdepth(1), rgb3toppm(1), ppmtopgm(1), ppmtorgb3(1), ppm(5), pgm(5)


AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1991 by Jef Poskanzer.



                                                   24 January 2001                                       pgmtoppm(1)
