PKGDATA(1)                                         ICU 52.1 Manual                                        PKGDATA(1)



NAME
       pkgdata - package data for use by ICU

SYNOPSIS
       pkgdata  [ -h, -?, --help ] [ -v, --verbose ] [ -c, --copyright | -C, --comment comment ] [ -m, --mode mode ]
       -p, --name name -O, --bldopt options [ -e, --entrypoint name ] [ -r, --revision version ] [ -F, --rebuild ] [
       -I,  --install  ] [ -s, --sourcedir source ] [ -d, --destdir destination ] [ -T, --tempdir directory ] [ file
       ...  ]

DESCRIPTION
       pkgdata takes a set of data files and packages them for use by ICU or applications that use ICU. The  typical
       reason  to  package  files using pkgdata is to make their distribution easier and their loading by ICU faster
       and less consuming of limited system resources such as file descriptors.  Packaged data also  allow  applica‐
       tions to be distributed with fewer resource files, or even with none at all if they link against the packaged
       data directly.

       pkgdata supports a few different methods of packaging data that serve different purposes.

       The default packaging mode is common, or archive.  In  this  mode,  the  different  data  files  are  bundled
       together  as  an  architecture-dependent  file  that can later be memory mapped for use by ICU. Data packaged
       using this mode will be looked up under the ICU data directory. Such packaging is easy to  use  for  applica‐
       tions resource bundles, for example, as long as the application can install the packaged file in the ICU data
       directory.

       Another packaging mode is the dll, or library, mode, where the data files are compiled into a shared library.
       ICU  used  to  be  able  to dynamically load these shared libraries, but as of ICU 2.0, such support has been
       removed. This mode is still useful for two main purposes: to build ICU itself, as the ICU data is packaged as
       a shared library by default; and to build resource bundles that are linked to the application that uses them.
       Such resource bundles can then be placed anywhere where the system's  dynamic  linker  will  be  looking  for
       shared libraries, instead of being forced to live inside the ICU data directory.

       The static packaging mode is similar to the shared library one except that it produces a static library.

       Finally, pkgdata supports a files mode which simply copies the data files instead of packaging them as a sin‐
       gle file or library. This mode is mainly intended to provide support for building ICU before it  is  packaged
       as  separate  small  packages  for  distribution with operating systems such as Debian GNU/Linux for example.
       Please refer to the packaging documentation in the ICU source distribution for further information on the use
       of this mode.

       pkgdata  builds,  packages,  installs,  or cleans the appropriate data based on the options given without the
       need to call GNU make anymore.

OPTIONS
       -h, -?, --help
              Print help about usage and exit.

       -v, --verbose
              Display extra informative messages during execution.

       -c, --copyright
              Include a copyright notice in the binary data.

       -C, --comment comment
              Includes the specified comment in the resulting data instead of the ICU copyright notice.

       -m, --mode mode
              Set the packaging mode to be used by pkgdata.  The different modes and their meaning are explained  in
              the  DESCRIPTION  section  above.  The valid mode names are common (or archive), dll (or library), and
              files.

       -O, --bldopt options
              Specify options for the builder. The builder is used internally by pkgdata  to  generate  the  correct
              packaged  file. Such options include, but are not limited to, setting variables used by make(1) during
              the build of the packaged file. Note: If icu-config is available, then this option is not needed.

       -p, --name name
              Set the packaged file name to name.  This name is also used as the default entry point name after hav‐
              ing been turned into a valid C identifier.

       -e, --entrypoint name
              Set  the  data  entry point (used for linking against the data in a shared library form) to name.  The
              default entry point name is the name set by the -n, --name option.

       -r, --revision version
              Enable versioning of the shared library produced in dll, or library, mode. The version number has  the
              format  major.minor.patchlevel  and all parts except for major are optional. If only major is supplied
              then the version is assumed to be major.0 for versioning purposes.

       -F, --rebuild
              Force the rebuilding of all data and their repackaging.

       -I, --install
              Install the packaged file (or all the files in the files mode). If the variable DESTDIR is set it will
              be used for installation.

       -s, --sourcedir source
              Set the source directory to source.  The default source directory is the current directory.

       -d, --destdir destination
              Set the destination directory to destination.  The default destination directory is the current direc‐
              tory.

       -T, --tempdir directory
              Set the directory used to generate temporary files to directory.  The default temporary  directory  is
              the same as the destination directory as set by the -d, --destdir option.

AUTHORS
       Steven Loomis
       Yves Arrouye

VERSION
       52.1

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2000-2009 IBM, Inc. and others.




ICU MANPAGE                                        6 February 2009                                        PKGDATA(1)
