pngtopnm(1)                                    General Commands Manual                                   pngtopnm(1)



NAME
       pngtopnm - convert a Portable Network Graphics file into portable anymap

SYNOPSIS
       pngtopnm [-verbose] [-alpha | -mix] [-background color]
       [-gamma value] [-text file] [-time] [pngfile]

DESCRIPTION
       Reads  a  Portable  Network Graphics as input.  Produces a portable anymap as output.  The type of the output
       file depends on the input file - if it's black & white, a pbm file is written, else if it's grayscale  a  pgm
       file, else a ppm file.

OPTIONS
       -verbose
              Display  the  format  of the input file and the type of the output file. If the chunks are part of the
              png-file, the alpha, transparency and gamma-values will be indicated.

       -alpha Output the alpha channel or transparency mask of the image. The result is either a  pbm  file  or  pgm
              file, depending on whether different levels of transparency appear.

       -mix   Compose  the  image  with  the  transparency or alpha mask against a the background. When a background
              chunk is available that color is taken, else black will do.

       -background color
              If no background color chunck is present in the png-file, or  when  another  color  is  required  this
              parameter can be used to set the background color of images. This is especially useful for alpha-chan‐
              nel images or those with transparency chunks. The format, to specify the color in, is either  (in  the
              case  of  orange)  "1.0,0.5,0.0", where the values are floats between zero and one, or with the syntax
              "#RGB", "#RRGGBB" or "#RRRRGGGGBBBB" where R, G and B are hexa-decimal numbers.

       -gamma value
              Converts the image to a new display-gamma value. When a gAMA chunk is present  in  the  png-file,  the
              image-gamma value will be used. When not, the image-gamma is considered to be 1.0. Based on the image-
              gamma and the display-gamma given with this  option  the  colors  written  to  the  pnm-file  will  be
              adjusted.
              Because the gamma's of uncompensated monitors are around 2.6, which results in an image-gamma of 0.45,
              some typical situations are: when the image-gamma is 0.45 (use -verbose to check) and the  picture  is
              too  light,  your  system  is  gamma-corrected,  so  convert with "-gamma 1.0".  When no gAMA chunk is
              present or the image-gamma is 1.0, use 2.2 to make the picture lighter and 0.45 to  make  the  picture
              darker.

       -text file
              Writes  the  tEXt and zTXt chunks to a file, in a format as described in the pnmtopng man-page.  These
              chunks contain text comments or annotations.

       -time  Prints the tIME chunk to stderr.

       All flags can be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.

SEE ALSO
       pnmtopng(1), ptot(1), pnmgamma(1), pnm(5)

NOTE
       Instead of pngtopnm|pnmtoxxx, a specific converter should be used, if available. E.g.  ptot (PNG to TIFF con‐
       version), etc.

BUGS
       There could be an option to read the comment text from pnm comments instead of a separate file.

       The program could be much faster, with a bit of code optimizing.

AUTHORS
       Copyright (C) 1995-1997 by Alexander Lehmann
                               and Willem van Schaik.



                                                   6 January 1997                                        pngtopnm(1)
