pnmcomp(1)                                     General Commands Manual                                    pnmcomp(1)



NAME
       pnmcomp - composite (overlay) two portable anymap files together

SYNOPSIS
       pnmcomp [-xoff=X | -align={left,center,right}]
       [-yoff=Y | -valign={top,middle,bottom}]
       [-alpha=alpha-pgmfile] [-invert]
       overlay [pnm-input] [pnm-output]

       Minimum unique abbreviations are acceptable.


DESCRIPTION
       pnmcomp reads two images and produces a composite image with one of the images overlayed on top of the other.
       The images need not be the same size.  The input and outputs are PNM format image files.

       In its simplest use, pnmcomp simply places the overlay file on top of the pnm-input file,  blocking  out  the
       part  of  the pnm-input file beneath it.  If you specify the alpha-pgmfile, pnmcomp uses it as an alpha mask,
       which means it determines the level of transparency of each point in the overlay image.  The alpha mask  must
       have  the  same dimensions as the overlay image.  In places where the alpha mask defines the overlay image to
       be opaque, the composite output contains only the contents of the overlay  image;  the  underlying  image  is
       totally blocked out.  In places where the alpha mask defines the overlay image to be transparent, the compos‐
       ite output contains none of the overlay image; the underlying image  shows  through  completely.   In  places
       where the alpha mask shows a value in between opaque and transparent (translucence), the composite image con‐
       tains a mixture of the overlay image and the underlying image and the level of  translucence  determines  how
       much of each.

       The  alpha  mask  is  a PGM file in which a white pixel represents opaqueness and a black pixel transparency.
       Anything in between is translucent.

       In some image file formats (PNG, for example), transparency information (the alpha mask) is part of the defi‐
       nition  of the image.  In the PNM formats, transparency is always embodied in a separate companion file.  The
       PNM converter programs that convert from an image format such as PNG have options that allow you  to  extract
       the transparency information to a separate file, which you can then use as input to pnmcomp.

       The  output  image  is always of the same dimensions as the underlying image.  pnmcomp only uses parts of the
       overlay image that fit within the underlying image.

       To specify where on the underlying image to place the overlay  image,  use  the  -xoff,  -yoff,  -align,  and
       -valign options.  Without these options, the default horizontal position is flush left and the default verti‐
       cal position is flush top.

       The overlay and underlying images may be of different formats (e.g.  overlaying a PBM text image over a  full
       color  PPM image) and have different maxvals.  The output image has the more general of the two input formats
       and a maxval that is the least common multiple the two maxvals (or the maximum maxval allowable by  the  for‐
       mat, if the LCM is more than that).



OPTIONS
       -invert
              This option inverts the sense of the values in the alpha mask, which effectively switches the roles of
              the overlay image and the underlying image in places where the two intersect.

       -xoff X

       -yoff Y
              These options position the overlay image with respect to the underlying image.  X and Y are the  hori‐
              zontal and vertical displacements of the top left corner of the overlay image from the top left corner
              of the underlying image, in pixels.  A positive value means right or down; a negative value means left
              or  up.  The overlay need not fit entirely (or at all) on the underlying image.  pnmcomp uses only the
              parts that lie over the underlying image.

       -align=[left,center,right]
              This option is an alternative to -xoff, in the style of HTML.  It selects the horizontal  position  of
              the overlay image so that it is flush left, centered, or flush right on the underlying image.

       -valign=[top,middle,bottom]
              This option is an alternative to -yoff, in the style of HTML.  It selects the vertical position of the
              overlay image so that it is flush top, centered, or flush bottom on the underlying image.


SEE ALSO
       ppmmix(1) and pnmpaste(1) are simpler, less general versions of the same tool.

       pnm(5), pbmmask(1)

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1992 by David Koblas (koblas@mips.com).



                                                    12 April 2000                                         pnmcomp(1)
