pnmcolormap(1)                                 General Commands Manual                                pnmcolormap(1)



NAME
       pnmcolormap - create quantization color map for a portable anymap


SYNOPSIS
       pnmcolormap  [-center|-meancolor|-meanpixel]  [-spreadbrightness|-spreadluminosity]  [-sort]  [-square] ncol‐
       ors|all [pnmfile]

       All options can be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.  You may use two hyphens instead  of  one  to
       designate an option.  You may use either white space or an equals sign between an option name and its value.


DESCRIPTION
       Reads  a PNM image as input.  Chooses ncolors colors to best represent the image, maps the existing colors to
       the new ones, and writes a PNM color map defining them as output.

       You can use this map as input to pnmremap on the same input image to quantize the colors in that image,  I.e.
       produce a similar image with fewer colors.  pnmquant does both the pnmcolormap and pnmremap steps for you.

       A  PNM colormap is a PNM image of any dimensions that contains at least one pixel of each color in the set of
       colors it represents.

       The quantization method is Heckbert's "median cut".  See the section QUANTIZATION METHOD.

       If the input image is a PPM, the output image is a PPM.  If the input image is a PBM or PGM, the output  col‐
       ormap is a PGM.  Note that a colormap of a PBM image is not very interesting.

       The colormap generally has the same maxval as the input image, but pnmcolormap may reduce it if there are too
       many colors in the input, as part of its quantization algorithm.

       If you want to create a colormap without basing it on the colors in an input image, see ppmcolors.


PARAMETERS
       The single parameter, which is required, is the number of colors you want in the  output  colormap.   pnmcol‐
       ormap may produce a color map with slightly fewer colors than that.  You may specify all to get a colormap of
       every color in the input image (no quantization).


       OPTIONS

       -sort  This option causes the output colormap to be sorted by the red component intensity,  then  the  green,
              then  the  blue  in  ascending order.  This is an insertion sort, so it is not very fast on large col‐
              ormaps.  Sorting is useful because it allows you to compare two sets of colors.

       -square
              By default, pnmcolormap produces as the color map a PPM image with one row and  one  column  for  each
              color  in  the colormap.  This option causes pnmcolormap instead to produce a PPM image that is within
              one row or column of being square, with multiple pixels of the same color as  necessary  to  create  a
              number of pixels which is a perfect square.

       -verbose
              This option causes pnmcolormap to display messages to Standard Error about the quantization.

       -center

       -meancolor

       -meanpixel

       -spreadbrightness

       -spreadluminosity
              These options control the quantization algorithm.  See QUANTIZATION METHOD below.



QUANTIZATION METHOD
       A  quantization  method is a way to choose which colors, being fewer in number than in the input, you want in
       the output.  pnmcolormap uses Heckbert's "median cut" quantization method.

       This method involves separating all the colors into "boxes," each holding colors  that  represent  about  the
       same  number  of pixels.  You start with one box and split boxes in two until the number of boxes is the same
       as the number of colors you want in the output, and choose one color to represent each box.

       When you split a box, you do it so that all the colors in one sub-box are "greater" than all  the  colors  in
       the  other.   "Greater," for a particular box, means it is brighter in the color component (red, green, blue)
       which has the largest spread in that box.  pnmcolormap gives you two ways to define  "largest  spread.":   1)
       largest  spread of brightness; 2) largest spread of contribution to the luminosity of the color.  E.g. red is
       weighted much more than blue.  Select among these with the -spreadbrightness and  -spreadluminosity  options.
       The default is -spreadbrightness.

       pnmcut  provides  three  ways of choosing a color to represent a box: 1) the center color - the color halfway
       between the greatest and least colors in the box, using the above definition of "greater"; 2) the mean of the
       colors  (each  component averaged separately by brightness) in the box; 3) the mean weighted by the number of
       pixels of a color in the image.

       Note that in all three methods, there may be colors in the output which do not appear in the input at all.

       Select among these with the -center, -meancolor, and -meanpixel options.  The default is -center.




REFERENCES
       "Color Image Quantization for Frame Buffer Display" by Paul Heckbert, SIGGRAPH '82 Proceedings, page 297.


SEE ALSO
       pnmremap(1), pnmquant(1), ppmquantall(1), pnmdepth(1), ppmdither(1), ppmquant(1), ppm(5)


AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 by Jef Poskanzer.  Copyright (C) 2001 by Bryan Henderson.



                                                  12 December 2001                                    pnmcolormap(1)
