pnmcrop(1)                                     General Commands Manual                                    pnmcrop(1)



NAME
       pnmcrop - crop a portable anymap

SYNOPSIS
       pnmcrop [-white|-black|-sides] [-left] [-right] [-top] [-bottom] [pnmfile]

       All options may be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix or specified with double hyphens.


DESCRIPTION
       Reads  a  PBM,  PGM,  or PPM image as input.  Removes borders that are the background color, and produces the
       same type of image as output.

       If you don't specify otherwise, pnmcrop assumes the background color is whatever color the top left and right
       corners  of  the  image are and if they are different colors, something midway between them.  You can specify
       that the background is white or black with the -white and -black options or make pnmcrop base  its  guess  on
       all four corners instead of just two with -sides.

       By  default, pnmcrop chops off any stripe of background color it finds, on all four sides.  You can tell pnm‐
       crop to remove only specific borders with the -left, -right, -top, and -bottom options.

       If you want to chop a specific amount off the side of an image, use pnmcut.

       If you want to add different borders after removing the existing ones, use pnmcat or pnmcomp.


OPTIONS
       -white Take white to be the background color.  pnmcrop removes borders which are white.

       -black Take black to be the background color.  pnmcrop removes borders which are black.

       -sides Determine the background color from the colors of the  four  corners  of  the  input  image.   pnmcrop
              removes borders which are of the background color.

              If  at least three of the four corners are the same color, pnmcrop takes that as the background color.
              If not, pnmcrop looks for two corners of the same color in the following order, taking the first found
              as  the background color: top, left, right, bottom.  If all four corners are different colors, pnmcrop
              assumes an average of the four colors as the background color.

              The -sides option slows pnmcrop down, as it reads the entire image to determine the  background  color
              in addition to the up to three times that it would read it without -sides.


       -left  Remove any left border.

       -right Remove any right border.

       -top   Remove any top border.

       -bottom
              Remove any bottom border.

       -verbose
              Print  on Standard Error information about the processing, including exactly how much is being cropped
              off of which sides.



SEE ALSO
       pnmcut(1), pnmfile(1), pnm(5)


AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1989 by Jef Poskanzer.



                                                    18 March 2001                                         pnmcrop(1)
