pnmgamma(1)                                    General Commands Manual                                   pnmgamma(1)



NAME
       pnmgamma - perform gamma correction on a portable anymap


SYNOPSIS
       pnmgamma [-ungamma] [-cieramp|-srgbramp] [value [pnmfile]]
       pnmgamma [-ungamma] [-cieramp|-srgbramp] redgamma greengamma bluegamma [pnmfile]


DESCRIPTION
       Performs gamma correction on pseudo-PNM images.

       The PPM format specification specify that certain sample values in a file represent certain light intensities
       in an image.  In particular, they specify that the sample values are directly proportional to gamma-corrected
       intensity values.  The gamma correction they specify is CIE Rec. 709.

       However,  people  sometimes  work with approximations of PPM and PGM where the relationship between the image
       intensities and the sample values are something else.  For example, the sample value might be  directly  pro‐
       portional  to the intensity with no gamma correction (often called "linear intensity").  Or a different gamma
       transfer function may be used.

       pnmgamma allows you to manipulate the transfer function, thus working with and/or creating  pseudo-PPM  files
       that are useful for various things.

       For  example,  if you feed a true PPM to pnmgamma -cieramp -ungamma, you get as output a file which is PPM in
       every respect except that the sample values are directly proportional to the light intensities in the  image.
       If you feed such a file to pnmgamma -cieramp, you get out a true PPM.

       The situation for PGM images is analogous.  And pnmgamma treats PBM images as PGM images.

       When  you  feed  a  linear PPM image to a display program that expects a true PPM, the display appears darker
       than it should, so pnmgamma has the effect of lightening the image.  When you feed a true PPM  to  a  display
       program that expects linear sample values, and therefore does a gamma correction of its own on them, the dis‐
       play appears lighter than it should, so pnmgamma with a gamma value less than one (the multiplicative inverse
       of whatever gamma value the display program uses) has the effect of darkening the image.


PARAMETERS
       The only parameters are the specification of the input image file and the gamma values.  Every gamma transfer
       function pnmgamma uses contains an exponent, which is the gamma value, and you can choose that value.

       Furthermore, you can choose different values for each of the three RGB components.  If you specify  only  one
       gamma value, pnmgamma uses that value for all three RGB components.

       If you don't specify any gamma parameters, pnmgamma chooses a default.  For the transfer functions defined by
       standards, the default is the value defined by the standard.  If you specify anything else, you will be vary‐
       ing from the standard.  For the simple power function transfer function, the default gamma is 1/.45.


OPTIONS
       -ungamma
              Apply  the inverse of the specified transfer function (i.e. go from gamma-corrected nonlinear intensi‐
              ties to linear intensities).


       -cieramp
              Use the CIE Rec. 709 gamma transfer function.  Note that it is true CIE Rec. 709 only if you  use  the
              default  gamma  value  (i.e.  don't  specify any gamma parameters).  This transfer function is a power
              function modified with a linear ramp near black.

              If you specify neither -cieramp nor -srgbramp, the transfer function defaults to a simple power  func‐
              tion.

       -srgbramp
              Use  the  Internation  Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) SRGB gamma transfer function (as specified in
              the standard IEC 61966-2-1).  Note that it is true SRGB only if you use the default gamma value  (i.e.
              don't specify any gamma parameters).  This transfer function is like the one selected by -cieramp, but
              with different constants in it.

              Note that SRGB is often spelled "sRGB".  In this document, we use standard English typography, though,
              which doesn't allow for that kind of capitalization.

              If  you specify neither -cieramp nor -srgbramp, the transfer function defaults to a simple power func‐
              tion.


WHAT IS GAMMA?
       A good explanation of gamma is in Charles  Poynton's  GammaFAQ   at  <http://www.inforamp.net/~poynton/Color‐
       FAQ.html> and ColorFAQ at <http://www.inforamp.net/~poynton/GammaFAQ.html>

       In  brief:  The simplest way to code an image is by using sample values that are directly proportional to the
       intensity of the color components.  But that wastes the sample space because the human eye can't discern dif‐
       ferences  between  low-intensity colors as well as it can between high-intensity colors.  So instead, we pass
       the light intensity values through a transfer function that makes it so that changing a  sample  value  by  1
       causes  the same level of perceived color change anywhere in the sample range.  We store those resulting val‐
       ues in the image file.  That transfer function is called the gamma transfer function and  the  transformation
       is called gamma correcting.

       Virtually  all  image formats, either specified or de facto, use gamma-corrected values for their sample val‐
       ues.

       What's really nice about gamma is that by coincidence, the inverse function that you have to  do  to  convert
       the  gamma-corrected  values  back to real light intensities is done automatically by CRTs.  You just apply a
       voltage to the CRT's electron gun that is proportional to the gamma-corrected sample value, and the intensity
       of  light  that  comes out of the screen is close to the intensity value you had before you applied the gamma
       transfer function!

       And when you consider that computer video devices usually want you to store in video memory a  value  propor‐
       tional to the signal voltage you want to go to the monitor, which the monitor turns into a proportional drive
       voltage on the electron gun, it is really convenient to work with gamma-corrected sample values.



SEE ALSO
       pnm(5)


AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1991 by Bill Davidson and Jef Poskanzer.



                                                    11 June 2001                                         pnmgamma(1)
