pnmhisteq(1)                                   General Commands Manual                                  pnmhisteq(1)



NAME
       pnmhisteq - histogram equalise a portable anymap

SYNOPSIS
       pnmhisteq [-gray] [-rmap pgmfile] [-wmap pgmfile] [-verbose] [pnmfile]

DESCRIPTION
       pnmhisteq increases the contrast of a portable graymap or pixmap through the technique of histogram equalisa‐
       tion[1].  A histogram of the luminance of pixels in the map is computed, from which a  transfer  function  is
       calculated  which  spreads  out intensity levels around histogram peaks and compresses them at troughs.  This
       has the effect of using the available levels of intensity more efficiently and thereby increases  the  detail
       visible in the image.

       Mathematically,  if  N[i]  is  the number of pixels of luminosity i in the image and T is the total number of
       pixels, luminosity j is replaced by:

                j
               ---
               \
                >   N[i] / T

               ---
               i=0

       If you're processing a related set of images, for example frames of an  animation,  it's  generally  best  to
       apply the same intensity map to every frame, since otherwise you'll get distracting frame-to-frame changes in
       the brightness of objects.  pnmhisteq's -wmap option allows you to save, as a portable graymap, the  luminos‐
       ity map computed from an image (usually a composite of the images you intend to process created with pnmcat).
       Then, you can subsequently process each of the individual images using the luminosity map saved in the  file,
       supplied with the -rmap option.

OPTIONS
       -gray     When  processing  a pixmap, only gray pixels (those with identical red, green, and blue values) are
                 included in the histogram and modified in the output image.   This  is  a  special  purpose  option
                 intended  for  images  where the actual data are gray scale, with colour annotations you don't want
                 modified.  Weather satellite images that show continent outlines in colour are best processed using
                 this option.  The option has no effect when the input is a graymap.

       -rmap mapfile
                 Process the image using the luminosity map specified by the portable graymap mapfile.  The graymap,
                 usually created by an earlier run of pnmhisteq with the -wmap option, contains a  single  row  with
                 number  of  columns equal to the maxval (greatest intensity) of the image.  Each pixel in the image
                 is transformed by looking up its luminosity in the corresponding column in the map file and  chang‐
                 ing it to the value given by that column.

       -wmap mapfile
                 Creates  a  portable graymap, mapfile, containing the luminosity map computed from the histogram of
                 the input image.  This map file can be read on subsequent runs of pnmhisteq with the -rmap  option,
                 allowing a group of images to be processed with an identical map.

       -verbose  Prints the histogram and luminosity map on standard error.

       All flags can be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.

BUGS
       Histogram  equalisation is effective for increasing the visible detail in scientific imagery and in some con‐
       tinuous-tone pictures.  It is often too drastic, however, for scanned  halftone  images,  where  it  does  an
       excellent job of making halftone artifacts apparent.  You might want to experiment with pgnnorm, ppmnorm, and
       pnmgamma for more subtle contrast enhancement.

       The luminosity map file supplied by the -rmap option must have the same maxval as the input image.   This  is
       always the case when the map file was created by the -wmap option of pnmhisteq.  If this restriction causes a
       problem, simply adjust the maxval of the map with pnmdepth to agree with the input image.

       If the input is a PBM file (on which histogram equalisation is an identity operation),  the  only  effect  of
       passing the file through pnmhisteq will be the passage of time.

SEE ALSO
       pgmnorm(1), pnm(5), pnmcat(1), pnmdepth(1), pnmgamma(1), pnmnorm(1)

       [1]  Russ, John C.  The Image Processing Handbook.  Boca Raton: CRC Press, 1992.  Pages 105-110.

AUTHOR
                                 Copyright (C) 1995 by John Walker (kelvin@fourmilab.ch).
                                          WWW home page: http://www.fourmilab.ch/

       Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and with‐
       out fee is hereby granted, without any conditions or restrictions.  This software is provided ``as is'' with‐
       out express or implied warranty.



                                                    19 March 1995                                       pnmhisteq(1)
