pnmhistmap(1)                                  General Commands Manual                                 pnmhistmap(1)



NAME
       pnmhistmap - draw a histogram for a PGM or PPM file

SYNOPSIS
       pnmhistmap [-black] [-white] [-max N] [-verbose] [pnmfile]

DESCRIPTION
       Reads  a  portable anymap as input, although bitmap (PBM) input produces an error message and no image.  Pro‐
       duces an image showing a histogram of the color (or gray) values in the input.  A graymap  (PGM)  input  pro‐
       duces a bitmap output.  A pixmap (PPM) input produces pixmap output with three overlaid histograms: a red one
       for the red input, a green one for the green input, and a blue one for the blue input.  The output  is  fixed
       in size: 256 pixels wide by 200 pixels high.

OPTIONS
       -black Ignores the count of black pixels when scaling the histogram.

       -white Ignores the count of white pixels when scaling the histogram.

       The  -black  and -white options, which can be used seperately or together, are useful for images with a large
       percentage of pixels whose value is zero or 255, which can cause  the  remaining  histogram  data  to  become
       unreadbaly  small.   Note  that,  for  pixmap inputs, these options apply to all colors; if, for example, the
       input has a large number of bright-red areas, you will probably want to use the -white option.

       -max N Force the scaling of the histogram to use N as the largest-count value.  This  is  useful  for  inputs
              with a large percentage of single-color pixels which are not black or white.

       -verbose
              Report  the progress of making the histogram, including the largest-count value used to scale the out‐
              put.

       All flags can be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.

BUGS
       Assumes maxval is always 255.  Images with a smaller maxval will only use the lower-value side  of  the  his‐
       togram.  This can be overcome either by piping the input through "pnmdepth 255" or by cutting and scaling the
       lower-value side of the histogram.  Neither is a particularly elegant solution.

       Should allow the output size to be specified.

SEE ALSO
       pgmhist(1), ppmhist(1), pgm(5), ppm(5)

AUTHOR
       Wilson H. Bent. Jr. (whb@usc.edu).



                                                   25 October 1993                                     pnmhistmap(1)
