pnmmontage(1)                                  General Commands Manual                                 pnmmontage(1)



NAME
       pnmmontage - create a montage of portable anymaps

SYNOPSIS
       pnmmontage [-?|-help] [-header=headerfile] [-quality=n] [-prefix=prefix] [-0|-1|-2|...|-9] pnmfile...

DESCRIPTION
       Packs  images  of  differing  sizes into a minimum-area composite image, optionally producing a C header file
       with the locations of the subimages within the composite image.

OPTIONS
       -?, -help
              Displays a (very) short usage message.

       -header
              Tells pnmmontage to write a C header file of the locations of the original images  within  the  packed
              image.   Each  original  image generates four #defines within the packed file: xxxX, xxxY, xxxSZX, and
              xxxSZY, where xxx is the name of the file, converted to all  uppercase.   The  #defines  OVERALLX  and
              OVERALLY are also produced, specifying the total size of the montage image.

       -prefix
              Tells pnmmontage to use the specified prefix on all of the #defines it generates.

       -quality
              Before  attempting  to  place the subimages, pnmmontage will calculate a minimum possible area for the
              montage; this is either the total of the areas of all the subimages, or the width of the widest subim‐
              age times the height of the tallest subimage, whichever is greater.  pnmmontage then initiates a prob‐
              lem-space search to find the best packing; if it finds a solution that is (at least) as  good  as  the
              minimum  area times the quality as a percent, it will break out of the search.  Thus, -q 100 will find
              the best possible solution; however, it may take a very long time to do so.  The default is -q 200.

       -0, -1, ... -9
              These options control the quality at a higher level than -q; -0 is the worst quality  (literally  pick
              the first solution found), while -9 is the best quality (perform an exhaustive search of problem space
              for the absolute best packing).  The higher the number, the slower the computation.   The  default  is
              -5.

NOTES
       Using -9 is excessively slow on all but the smallest image sets.  If the anymaps differ in maxvals, then pnm‐
       montage will pick the smallest maxval which is evenly divisible by  each  of  the  maxvals  of  the  original
       images.

SEE ALSO
       pnmcat(1), pnmindex(1), pnm(5), pam(5), pbm(5), pgm(5), ppm(5)


AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 2000 by Ben Olmstead.



                                                  31 December 2000                                     pnmmontage(1)
