pnmnorm(1)                                     General Commands Manual                                    pnmnorm(1)



NAME
       pnmnorm - normalize the contrast in a Netbpm image

SYNOPSIS
       pnmnorm [-bpercent N | -bvalue N] [-wpercent N | -wvalue N] [-keephues] [-brightmax]

       [ppmfile]

       All  options  can  be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.  You may use two hyphens instead of one to
       designate an option.  You may use either white space or an equals sign between an option name and its value.


DESCRIPTION
       Reads a PNM image (PBM, PGM, or PPM).  Normalizes the contrast by forcing the lightest pixels to  white,  the
       darkest  pixels  to  black, and linearly rescaling the ones in between; and produces the same kind of file as
       output.  This is pretty useless for a PBM image.

       The program first determines a mapping of old brightness to new brightness.  For each possible brightness  of
       a pixel, the program determines a corresponding brightness for the output image.

       Then  for  each  pixel in the image, the program computes a color which has the desired output brightness and
       puts that in the output.  With a color image, it is not always possible to compute such a  color  and  retain
       any  semblance  of  the  original  hue,  so the brightest and dimmest pixels may only approximate the desired
       brightness.

       Note that for a PPM image, this is different from separately normalizing the individual color components.


OPTIONS
       By default, the darkest 2 percent of all pixels are mapped to black, and the lightest 1 percent are mapped to
       white.  You can override these percentages by using the -bpercent and -wpercent flags, or you can specify the
       exact pixel values to be mapped by using the -bvalue and -wvalue flags.  Appropriate numbers  for  the  flags
       can  be gotten from the ppmhist tool.  If you just want to enhance the contrast, then choose values at elbows
       in the histogram; e.g. if value 29 represents 3% of the image but value 30  represents  20%,  choose  30  for
       bvalue.   If  you  want to lighten the image, then set bvalue to 0 and just fiddle with wvalue; similarly, to
       darken the image, set wvalue to maxval and play with bvalue.

       The -keephues option says to keep each pixel the same hue as it is in the input; just adjust  its  intensity.
       By  default,  pnmnorm  normalizes  contrast  in  each component independently (except that the meaning of the
       -wpercent and -bpercent options are based on the overall intensities of the colors, not each component  taken
       separately).   So if you have a color which is intensely red but dimly green, pnmnorm would make the red more
       intense and the green less intense, so you end up with a different hue than you started with.

       If you specify -keephues, pnmnorm would likely leave this pixel alone, since its overall intensity is medium.

       -keephues can cause clipping, because a certain color may be below a target intensity while one of its compo‐
       nents  is  saturated.   Where that's the case, pnmnorm uses the maximum representable intensity for the satu‐
       rated component and the pixel ends up with less overall intensity, and a different hue, than it  is  supposed
       to have.

       This option is meaningless on grayscale images.

       Before March 2002, there was no -keephues option.

       The  -brightmax  option says to use the intensity of the most intense RGB component of a pixel as the pixel's
       brightness.  By default, pnmnorm uses the luminosity of the color as its brightness.

       This option is meaningless on grayscale images.

       Before March 2002, there was no -brightmax option.



SEE ALSO
       ppmhist(1), pgmhist(1), pnmgamma(1), ppmbrighten(1), ppmdim(1), pnm(5)



                                                   7 October 1993                                         pnmnorm(1)
