pnmnlfilt(1)                                   General Commands Manual                                  pnmnlfilt(1)



NAME
       pnmnlfilt - non-linear filters: smooth, alpha trim mean, optimal estimation smoothing, edge enhancement.

SYNOPSIS
       pnmnlfilt alpha radius [pnmfile]


DESCRIPTION
       pnmnlfilt  produces  an output image where the pixels are a summary of multiple pixels near the corresponding
       location in an input image.

       This program works on multi-image streams.

       This is something of a swiss army knife filter. It has 3 distinct operating modes. In all of the  modes  each
       pixel  in  the image is examined and processed according to it and its surrounding pixels values. Rather than
       using the 9 pixels in a 3x3 block, 7 hexagonal area samples are taken, the size of the  hexagons  being  con‐
       trolled by the radius parameter. A radius value of 0.3333 means that the 7 hexagons exactly fit into the cen‐
       ter pixel (ie.  there will be no filtering effect). A radius value of 1.0 means that the 7  hexagons  exactly
       fit a 3x3 pixel array.

Alpha trimmed mean filter.    (0.0 <= alpha <= 0.5)
       The  value  of  the  center  pixel will be replaced by the mean of the 7 hexagon values, but the 7 values are
       sorted by size and the top and bottom alpha portion of the 7 are excluded from the mean.  This  implies  that
       an  alpha value of 0.0 gives the same sort of output as a normal convolution (ie. averaging or smoothing fil‐
       ter), where radius will determine the "strength" of the filter. A good value to start from for subtle filter‐
       ing is alpha = 0.0, radius = 0.55 For a more blatant effect, try alpha 0.0 and radius 1.0

       An  alpha  value  of 0.5 will cause the median value of the 7 hexagons to be used to replace the center pixel
       value. This sort of filter is good for eliminating "pop" or single pixel noise from an image without  spread‐
       ing the noise out or smudging features on the image. Judicious use of the radius parameter will fine tune the
       filtering. Intermediate values of alpha give effects somewhere between smoothing and "pop"  noise  reduction.
       For  subtle  filtering  try  starting with values of alpha = 0.4, radius = 0.6  For a more blatant effect try
       alpha = 0.5, radius = 1.0

Optimal estimation smoothing. (1.0 <= alpha <= 2.0)
       This type of filter applies a smoothing filter adaptively over the image.  For each pixel the variance of the
       surrounding  hexagon  values is calculated, and the amount of smoothing is made inversely proportional to it.
       The idea is that if the variance is small then it is due to noise in the image,  while  if  the  variance  is
       large, it is because of "wanted" image features. As usual the radius parameter controls the effective radius,
       but it probably advisable to leave the radius between 0.8 and 1.0 for the variance calculation to be meaning‐
       ful.   The alpha parameter sets the noise threshold, over which less smoothing will be done.  This means that
       small values of alpha will give the most subtle filtering effect, while large values will tend to smooth  all
       parts of the image. You could start with values like alpha = 1.2, radius = 1.0 and try increasing or decreas‐
       ing the alpha parameter to get the desired effect. This type of filter is best for  filtering  out  dithering
       noise in both bitmap and color images.

Edge enhancement. (-0.1 >= alpha >= -0.9)
       This  is the opposite type of filter to the smoothing filter. It enhances edges. The alpha parameter controls
       the amount of edge enhancement, from subtle (-0.1) to blatant  (-0.9).  The  radius  parameter  controls  the
       effective  radius  as  usual,  but useful values are between 0.5 and 0.9. Try starting with values of alpha =
       0.3, radius = 0.8

Combination use.
       The various modes of pnmnlfilt can be used one after the other to get the desired  result.  For  instance  to
       turn a monochrome dithered image into a grayscale image you could try one or two passes of the smoothing fil‐
       ter, followed by a pass of the optimal estimation filter, then some subtle edge enhancement. Note that  using
       edge enhancement is only likely to be useful after one of the non-linear filters (alpha trimmed mean or opti‐
       mal estimation filter), as edge enhancement is the direct opposite of smoothing.

       For reducing color quantization noise in images (ie. turning .gif files back into 24 bit files) you could try
       a  pass  of  the  optimal  estimation filter (alpha 1.2, radius 1.0), a pass of the median filter (alpha 0.5,
       radius 0.55), and possibly a pass of the edge enhancement filter.  Several passes of the  optimal  estimation
       filter with declining alpha values are more effective than a single pass with a large alpha value.  As usual,
       there is a tradeoff between filtering effectiveness and loosing detail. Experimentation is encouraged.

References:
       The alpha-trimmed mean filter is based on the description in IEEE CG&A May 1990 Page 23 by Mark  E.  Lee  and
       Richard A. Redner, and has been enhanced to allow continuous alpha adjustment.

       The  optimal  estimation  filter  is taken from an article "Converting Dithered Images Back to Gray Scale" by
       Allen Stenger, Dr Dobb's Journal, November 1992, and this article references "Digital Image  Enhancement  and
       Noise  Filtering by Use of Local Statistics", Jong-Sen Lee, IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine
       Intelligence, March 1980.

       The edge enhancement details are from pgmenhance(1), which is taken from Philip R. Thompson's "xim"  program,
       which in turn took it from section 6 of "Digital Halftones by Dot Diffusion", D. E. Knuth, ACM Transaction on
       Graphics Vol. 6, No. 4, October 1987, which in turn got it from two 1976 papers by J. F. Jarvis et. al.

SEE ALSO
       pgmenhance(1), pnmconvol(1), pnm(5)

BUGS
       Integers and tables may overflow if PPM_MAXMAXVAL is greater than 255.

AUTHOR
       Graeme W. Gill    graeme@labtam.oz.au



                                                   5 February 1993                                      pnmnlfilt(1)
