pnmpaste(1)                                    General Commands Manual                                   pnmpaste(1)



NAME
       pnmpaste - paste a rectangle into a portable anymap

SYNOPSIS
       pnmpaste [-replace|-or|-and |-xor] frompnmfile x y [intopnmfile]

DESCRIPTION
       Reads two portable anymaps as input.  Inserts the first anymap into the second at the specified location, and
       produces a portable anymap the same size as the second as output.  If the second anymap is not specified,  it
       is  read  from  stdin.  The x and y can be negative, in which case they are interpreted relative to the right
       and bottom of the anymap, respectively.

       This tool is most useful in combination with pnmcut.  For instance, if you want to edit a small segment of  a
       large  image,  and  your image editor cannot edit the large image, you can cut out the segment you are inter‐
       ested in, edit it, and then paste it back in.

       Another useful companion tool is pbmmask.

       pnmcomp is, a more general tool, except that it lacks the "or," "and," and "xor" functions.   pnmcomp  allows
       you  to specify an alpha mask in order to have only part of the inserted image get inserted.  So the inserted
       pixels need not be a rectangle.  You can also have the inserted image be translucent, so the resulting  image
       is a mixture of the inserted image and the base image.


       The  optional flag specifies the operation to use when doing the paste.  The default is -replace.  The other,
       logical operations are only allowed if both input images are bitmaps.  These operations act as  if  white  is
       TRUE and black is FALSE.

       All flags can be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.


SEE ALSO
       pnmcomp(1), pnmcut(1), pnminvert(1), pnmarith(1), pbmmask(1), pnm(5)


AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 by Jef Poskanzer.



                                                  21 February 1991                                       pnmpaste(1)
