pnmremap(1)                                    General Commands Manual                                   pnmremap(1)



NAME
       pnmremap - replace colors in a PPM image with colors from another set


SYNOPSIS
       pnmremap  [-floyd|-fs|-nfloyd|-nofs]  [-firstisdefault]  [-verbose]  [-mapfile=mapfile] [-missingcolor=color]
       [pnmfile]

       All options can be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.  You may use two hyphens instead  of  one  to
       designate an option.  You may use either white space or an equals sign between an option name and its value.


DESCRIPTION
       pnmremap  replaces the colors in an input image with those from a colormap you specify.  Where a color in the
       input is not in the colormap, you have three choices: 1) choose the  closest  color  from  the  colormap;  2)
       choose  the  first  color  from  the colormap; 3) use a color specified by a command option.  (In this latter
       case, if the color you specify is not in your color map, the output will not necessarily contain only  colors
       from the colormap).

       Two reasons to do this are: 1) you want to reduce the number of colors in the input image; and 2) you need to
       feed the image to something that can handle only certain colors.

       To reduce colors, you can generate the colormap with ppmcolormap.  Example:

       ppmcolormap testimg.ppm 256 >colormap.ppm
       ppmremap -map=colormap.ppm testimg.ppm
       >reduced_testimg.ppm

       To limit colors to a certain set, a typical example is to create an image for posting on the World Wide  Web,
       where  different  browsers  know  different colors.  But all browsers are supposed to know the 216 "web safe"
       colors which are essentially all the colors you can represent in a PPM image with a maxval of 5.  So you  can
       do this:

       ppmcolors 5 >websafe.ppm
       ppmremap -map=webafe.ppm testimg.ppm >websafe_testimg.ppm

       The output image has the same type and maxval as the map file.



PARAMETERS
       There is one parameter, which is required:  The file specifcation of the input PNM file.


       OPTIONS

       -floyd -fs  -nofloyd -nofs These options determine whether Floyd-Steinberg dithering is done.  Without Floyd-
              Steinberg, the selection of output color of a pixel is based on the color of  only  the  corresponding
              input  pixel.  With Floyd-Steinberg, multiple input pixels are considered so that the average color of
              an area tends to stay more the same than without Floyd-Steinberg.  For example, if you  map  an  image
              with  a black, gray, gray, and white pixel adjacent, through a map that contains only black and white,
              it might result in an output of black, black, white, white.  Pixel-by-pixel mapping would instead  map
              both the gray pixels to the same color.

              -fs is a synomym for -floyd.  -nofs is a synonym for -nofloyd.

              The default is -nofloyd.


       -firstisdefault
              This  affects what happens with a pixel in the input image whose color is not in the map file.  If you
              specify neither -firstisdefault nor -missingcolor, pnmremap chooses for the output the  color  in  the
              map which is closest to the color in the input.  With -firstisdefault, pnmremap instead uses the first
              color in the colormap.

              If you specify -firstisdefault, the maxval of your input must match the maxval of your colormap.


       -missingcolor=color
              This affects what happens with a pixel in the input image whose color is not in the map file.  If  you
              specify  neither  -firstisdefault  nor -missingcolor, pnmremap chooses for the output the color in the
              map which is closest to the color in the input.  With -missingcolor, pnmremap uses color.  color  need
              not be in the colormap.

              If you specify -missingcolor, the maxval of your input must match the maxval of your colormap.


       -verbose
              Display helpful messages about the mapping process.



SEE ALSO
       pnmcolormap(1), ppmcolors(1), pnmquant(1), ppmquantall(1), pnmdepth(1), ppmdither(1), ppmquant(1), ppm(5)


AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 by Jef Poskanzer.  Copyright (C) 2001 by Bryan Henderson.



                                                   01 January 2002                                       pnmremap(1)
