pnmscalefixed(1)                               General Commands Manual                              pnmscalefixed(1)



NAME
       pnmscalefixed - scale a portable anymap quickly, but less accurate


DESCRIPTION
       pnmscalefixed  is the same thing as pnmscale except that it uses fixed point arithmetic internally instead of
       floating point, which makes it run faster.  In turn, it is less accurate and may distort the image.

       Use the pnmscale man page with pnmscalefixed.  This man page only describes the difference.

       pnmscalefixed uses fixed point 12 bit arithmetic.  By contrast, pnmscale uses floating point arithmetic which
       on most machines is probably 24 bit precision.  This makes pnmscalefixed run faster (30% faster in one exper‐
       iment), but the imprecision can cause distortions at the right and bottom edges.

       The distortion takes the following form: One pixel from the edge of the input is rendered larger in the  out‐
       put than the scaling factor requires.  Consequently, the rest of the image is smaller than the scaling factor
       requires, because the overall dimensions of the image are always as requested.  This distortion will  usually
       be very hard to see.

       pnmscalefixed with the -verbose option tells you how much distortion there is.

       The  amount  of  distortion  depends on the size of the input image and how close the scaling factor is to an
       integral 1/4096th.

       If the scaling factor is an exact multiple of 1/4096, there is no distortion.  So, for  example  doubling  or
       halving  an  image causes no distortion.  But reducing it or enlarging it by a third would cause some distor‐
       tion.  To consider an extreme case, scaling a 100,000 row image down to 50,022 rows would  create  an  output
       image  with all of the input squeezed into the top 50,000 rows, and the last row of the input copied into the
       bottom 22 rows of output.

       pnmscalefixed could probably be modified to use 16 bit or better arithmetic  without  losing  anything.   The
       modification  would  consist of a single constant in the source code.  Until there is a demonstrated need for
       that, though, the Netpbm maintainer wants to keep the safety cushion afforded by the original 12  bit  preci‐
       sion.


       pnmscalefixed does not have pnmscale 's -nomix option.





                                                  18 November 2000                                  pnmscalefixed(1)
