pnmscale(1)                                    General Commands Manual                                   pnmscale(1)



NAME
       pnmscale - scale a portable anymap

SYNOPSIS
       pnmscale scale_factor [pnmfile]
       pnmscale -reduce reduction_factor [pnmfile]
       pnmscale [{-xsize=cols | -width=cols | -xscale=factor}] [{-ysize=rows | -height=rows | -yscale=factor}] [pnm‐
       file]
       pnmscale -xysize cols rows [pnmfile]
       pnmscale -pixels n [pnmfile]

       Miscellaneous options:
       -verbose -nomix


       Minimum unique abbreviation of option is acceptable.  You may use double hypens instead of single  hyphen  to
       denote  options.   You  may  use  white space in place of the equals sign to separate an option name from its
       value.



DESCRIPTION
       Reads a PBM, PGM, or PPM image as input, scales it by the specified factor or factors and produces a  PGM  or
       PPM  image  as  output.   If  the  input file is in color (PPM), the output will be too, otherwise it will be
       grayscale (PGM).  This is true even if the input is a black and white bitmap (PBM), because  the  process  of
       scaling can turn a combination of black and white pixels into a gray pixel.

       If you want PBM output, use pgmtopbm to convert pnmscale's output to PBM.  Also consider pbmreduce.

       You can both enlarge (scale factor > 1) and reduce (scale factor < 1).

       When  you  specify an absolute size or scale factor for both dimensions, pnmscale scales each dimension inde‐
       pendently without consideration of the aspect ratio.

       If you specify one dimension as a pixel size and don't specify  the  other  dimension,  pnmscale  scales  the
       unspecified dimension to preserve the aspect ratio.

       If  you  specify  one  dimension as a scale factor and don't specify the other dimension, pnmscale leaves the
       unspecified dimension unchanged from the input.

       If you specify the scale_factor parameter instead of dimension options, that is the  scale  factor  for  both
       dimensions.  It is equivalent to -xscale=scale_factor -yscale=scale_factor .

       Specifying  the -reduce reduction_factor option is equivalent to specifying the scale_factor parameter, where
       scale_factor is the reciprocal of reduction_factor.

       -xysize specifies a bounding box.  pnmscale scales the input image to the largest size that fits  within  the
       box, while preserving its aspect ratio.

       -pixels  specifies a maximum total number of output pixels.  pnmscale scales the image down to that number of
       pixels.  If the input image is already no more than that many pixels, pnmscale just copies it as output; pnm‐
       scale does not scale up with -pixels.

       If you enlarge by a factor of 3 or more, you should probably add a pnmsmooth step; otherwise, you can see the
       original pixels in the resulting image.

       When the scale factor is not an integer (including all cases of scaling down), there are two ways to  do  the
       scaling.  Which one pnmscale does is controlled by its -nomix option.

       By  default,  pnmscale  mixes the colors of adjacent pixels to produce output pixels that contain information
       from multiple input pixels.  This makes the image look more like it would  if  it  had  infinite  resolution.
       Note that it means the output may contain colors that aren't in the input at all.

       But  if  you specify -nomix, pnmscale never mixes pixels.  Each output pixel is derived from one input pixel.
       If you're scaling up, pixels get duplicated.  If you're scaling down, pixels get  omitted.   Note  that  this
       means  the  image  is  rather distorted.  If you scale up by 1.5 horizontally, for example, the even numbered
       input pixels are doubled in the output and the odd numbered ones are copied singly.

       When the scale factor is an integer (which means you're scaling up), the -nomix option has no effect --  out‐
       put  pixels  are  always  just N copies of the input pixels.  In this case, though, consider using pamstretch
       instead of pnmscale to get the added pixels interpolated instead of just copied and thereby  get  a  smoother
       enlargement.

       pnmscale  with -nomix is faster than without, but pnmenlarge is faster still.  pnmenlarge works only on inte‐
       ger enlargements.

       A useful application of pnmscale is to blur an image.  Scale it down (without -nomix ) to discard some infor‐
       mation, then scale it back up using pamstretch.

       Or  scale it back up with pnmscale and create a "pixelized" image, which is sort of a computer-age version of
       blurring.



   PRECISION
       pnmscale uses floating point arithmetic internally.  There is a speed cost associated with  this.   For  some
       images,  you can get the acceptable results (in fact, sometimes identical results) faster with pnmscalefixed,
       which uses fixed point arithmetic.  pnmscalefixed may, however, distort your image a little.   See  pnmscale‐
       fixed's man page for a complete discussion of the difference.


SEE ALSO
       pnmscalefixed(1), pamstretch(1), pbmreduce(1), pnmenlarge(1), pnmsmooth(1), pnmcut(1), pnm(5)


AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 by Jef Poskanzer.



                                                  04 November 2000                                       pnmscale(1)
