PNMTORLE(1)                                    General Commands Manual                                   PNMTORLE(1)



NAME
       pnmtorle - convert a Netpbm image file into an RLE image file.

SYNOPSIS
       pnmtorle [ -h ] [ -v ] [ -a ] [ -o outfile ] [ pnmfile ]

DESCRIPTION
       This  program  converts  Netpbm image files into Utah RLE(5) image files.  You can include an alpha mask.  If
       the input is a multiple image file, the output consists of several concatenated RLE images.

       The RLE file will contain either a three channel color image (24 bits) or a single channel grayscale image (8
       bits) depending upon the pnm file depth.  If a converted ppm is displayed on an 8 bit display, the image must
       be dithered.  In order to produce a better looking image (on 8 bit displays),  it  is  recommended  that  the
       image  be  quantizing (to 8 bit mapped color) prior to its display.  This may be done by piping the output of
       this program into the Utah mcut(1) or rlequant(1) utilities.  An example of this is shown later.

OPTIONS
       -v     This option will cause pnmtorle to operate in verbose mode.  The  header  information  is  written  to
              "stderr".  Actually, there is not much header information stored in a Netpbm file, so this information
              is minimal.

       -h     This option allows the header of the Netpbm image to be dumped  to  "stderr"  without  converting  the
              file.  It is equivalent to using the -v option except that no file conversion takes place.

       -a     This  option  causes  pnmtorle  to include an alpha channel in the output image.  The alpha channel is
              based on the image:  Wherever a pixel is black, the corresponding alpha value is transparent.   Every‐
              where else, the alpha value is fully opaque.

       -o outfile
              If  specified, the output will be written to this file.  If outfile is "-", or if it is not specified,
              the output will be written to the standard output stream.

       pnmfile
              The name of the Netpbm image data file to be converted.  If not specified, standard input is assumed.

EXAMPLES
       pnmtorle -v file.ppm -o file.rle
              While running in verbose mode, convert file.ppm to RLE format and store resulting data in file.rle.

       pnmtorle -h file.pgm
              Dump the header information of the Netpbm file called file.pgm.

SEE ALSO
       rletopnm(1), urt(1), RLE(5).

AUTHOR
       Wes Barris
       Army High Performance Computing Research Center (AHPCRC)
       Minnesota Supercomputer Center, Inc.



1                                                  March 31, 1994                                        PNMTORLE(1)
