pnmtotiffcmyk(1)                               General Commands Manual                              pnmtotiffcmyk(1)



NAME
       pnmtotiffcmyk - convert a portable anymap into a CMYK encoded TIFF file

SYNOPSIS
       pnmtotiffcmyk [Compargs][Tiffargs][Convargs][ pnmfile ]

       Compargs:
              [-none|-packbits|-lzw [-predictor n]]

       Tiffargs:
              [-msb2lsb|-lsb2msb] [-rowsperstrip n]
              [-lowdotrange n] [-highdotrange n]
              [-knormal|-konly|-kremove]

       Convargs:
              [[-default][Defargs]|-negative]

       Defargs:
              [-theta deg] [-gamma n] [-gammap -1|-gammap n]

DESCRIPTION
       Reads  a  portable  anymap  as  input.  Produces a CMYK encoded TIFF file as output.  Optionally modifies the
       colour balance and black level, and removes CMY from under K.

OPTIONS
       The order of most options is not important, but options for  particular  conversion  algorithms  must  appear
       after  the  algorithm is selected (-default,-negative).  If no algorithm is selected then -default is assumed
       and the appropriate options (-theta,-gamma,-gammap) can appear anywhere.

       -none,-packbits,-lzw,-predictor
              Tiff files can be compressed.  By default LZW decompression is used,  but  (apparently)  some  readers
              cannot read this, so you may want to select a different algorithm (-none,-packbits).  For LZW compres‐
              sion, a -predictor value of 2 forces horizontal differencing of scanlines before encoding; a value  of
              1 forces no differencing.

       -msb2lsb,-lsb2msb
              These flags control fill order (default is -msb2lsb).

       -rowsperstrip
              This  sets  the  number of rows in an image strip (data in the Tiff files generated by this program is
              stored in strips - each strip is compressed individually).  The default gives a strip size of no  more
              than 8 kb.

       -lowdotrange,-highdotrange
              These options set tag values that may be useful for printers.  They have not been tested.

       -knormal,-kremove,-konly
              These  options modify the values written to the Tiff file after the conversion calculations (described
              below) are completed.  They are useful only for testing and debugging the code.

              -kremove sets the black (K) layer to zero while -konly sets all inks to the black value.

       -default,-negative
              -negative selects a simple algorithm that generates a colour negative.  None of the following  options
              apply  to  this algorithm, which is included as an example in the source to help implementors of other
              conversions.  -default is not needed, unless it is used to countermand a -negative on the same command
              line.  The default conversion from RGB to CMYK can be modified by altering the options listed below.

              The  CMYKTiff  web  site  includes tests on the conversion parameters.  The test images illustrate the
              command line options in practice and may make the following explanation clearer.

       -theta deg
              The basic conversion from RGB to CMY uses C = 1-R, M = 1-G, Y = 1-B.  -theta provides a simple correc‐
              tion for any colour bias that may occur in the printed image because, in practice, inks do not exactly
              complement the primary colours.  It rotates the colours by the amount given (deg) in degrees.   Unless
              you  are  trying  to  produce  unusual effects you will need to use small values (try generating three
              images at -10, 0 (the default) and 10 degrees and seeing which has the best colour balance.

       -gamma n
              The black (K) component of the image is calculated as min(C,Y,M).  -gamma applies a  gamma  correction
              to  this level.  In other words, the final black level is K (normalised to the range 0 to 1) raised to
              the nth power.  In practice this means that a value greater than 1 makes the image lighter and a value
              less than 1 makes the image darker.  The range of allowed values is 0.1 to 10.

       -gammap n
              This  option controls the removal of CMY under K.  If n is -1 then no removal occurs and C, M, Y and K
              are calculated as above.  This means that, when printed, dark areas contain all four inks,  which  can
              make high contrast areas, like lettering, appear fuzzy.

              By  default,  when  -gammap is not given on the command line, the colours are reduced in dark areas by
              subtracting the black level.  The value subtracted is calculated with the same gamma correction  given
              by -gamma.  Hopefully this will reduce fuzziness without changing the appearance of the image signifi‐
              cantly.

              If -gammap n is given, with n between 0.01 and 10, then black is still subtracted, but the  subtracted
              value  is  calculated using n rather than any value supplied with -gamma.  For example, it may be best
              to only subtract black from the coloured inks in the very darkest regions.  In that case, n should  be
              a large value, such as 5.

BUGS
       This  program  is  not self-contained.  It must be used with NetPbm and libtiff must be available (libtiff is
       included in the 1mar94 release of NetPbm).

SEE ALSO
       pnmtotiff(1), tifftopnm(1), pnm(5)

AUTHOR
       Copyright (c) 1999 Andrew Cooke (Jara Software).  Released under the GPL with no  warranty.   See  source  or
       COPYRIGHT and LICENCE files in distribution for full details.

       Much  of  the code (and man page!) uses ideas from other pnm programs, written by Jef Poskanzer (thanks go to
       him and libtiff maintainer Sam Leffler).  A small section of the code - some of the tiff tag  settings  -  is
       derived  directly  from  pnmtotiff,  by Jef Poskanzer, which, in turn, acknowledges Patrick Naughton with the
       following text:

              Derived by Jef Poskanzer from ras2tif.c, which is:

              Copyright (c) 1990 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.

              Author: Patrick J. Naughton naughton@wind.sun.com

              Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation  for  any  purpose
              and  without  fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and
              that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.

              This file is provided AS IS with no warranties of any kind.  The author shall have no  liability  with
              respect  to  the  infringement  of  copyrights,  trade secrets or any patents by this file or any part
              thereof.  In no event will the author be liable for any lost revenue  or  profits  or  other  special,
              indirect and consequential damages.



                                                   9 December 1999                                  pnmtotiffcmyk(1)
