pnmmtofiasco(1)                                General Commands Manual                               pnmmtofiasco(1)



NAME
       pnmtofiasco - Convert a portable anymap to FIASCO compressed file


SYNOPSIS
       pnmtofiasco [option]...  [filename]...


DESCRIPTION
       pnmtofiasco  compresses  the  named  pbm, pgm, or ppm image files, or Standard Input if no file is named, and
       produces a FIASCO file on Standard Output.


OPTIONS
       All option names may be abbreviated; for example, --optimize may  be  written  --optim  or  --opt.  For  most
       options a one letter short option is provided.  Mandatory or optional arguments to long options are mandatory
       or optional for short options, too.  Both short and long options are case sensitive.

       The basic options are:


       -i name, --input-name=name
              Compress the named images, not Standard Input.  If name is -, read Standard Input.   name  has  to  be
              either an image filename or a template of the form:

                                                 prefix[start-end{+,-}step]suffix

              Templates   are   useful   when   compressing  video  streams:  e.g.,  if  you  specify  the  template
              img0[12-01-2].pgm, then pnmtofiasco compresses the images img012.pgm, img010.pgm, ..., img002.pgm.

              If name is a relative path, pnmtofiasco searches for the image files in the current directory  and  in
              the (colon-separated) list of directories given by the environment variable FIASCO_IMAGES.


       -o output-file, --output-name=name
              Write FIASCO output to the named file, not to Standard Output.

              If  name  is  a  relative path and the environment variable FIASCO_DATA is a (colon-separated) list of
              directories, then pnmtofiasco writes the output file to the first (writable) directory of  this  list.
              Otherwise, pnmtofiasco write it to the current directory.


       -q N, --quality=N
              Set quality of compression to N.  Quality is 1 (worst) to 100 (best); default is 20.


       -v, --version
              Print pnmtofiasco version number, then exit.


       -V N, --verbose N
              Set  level  of  verbosity  to  N.   Level is 0 (no output at all), 1 (show progress meter), or 2 (show
              detailed compression statistics); default is 1.


       -B N, --progress-meter N
              Set type of progress-meter to N.  The following types are available; default is 1:

              0: no progress meter

              1: RPM style progress bar using 50 hash marks

              2: percentage meter


       -f name, --config=name
              Load parameter file name to initialize the options of pnmtofiasco.  See file  system.fiascorc  for  an
              example  of  the syntax. Options of pnmtofiasco are set by any of the following methods (in the speci‐
              fied order):

              1) Global ressource file /etc/system.fiascorc

              2) $HOME/.fiascorc

              3) command line

              4) --config=name


       -h, --info
              Print brief help, then exit.


       -H, --help
              Print detailed help, then exit.


       The options for advanced users are:


       -b name, --basis-name=name
              Preload compression basis name into FIASCO. The basis name provides the  initial  compression  dictio‐
              nary.   Either  use one of the files "small.fco", "medium.fco", or "large.fco" that come with pnmtofi‐
              asco or create a new ASCII basis file.


       -z N, --optimize=N Set optimization level to
              N. Level is 0 (fastes) to 3 (slowest); default  is  1.  Be  warned,  the  encoding  time  dramatically
              increased when N=2 or N=3 while the compression performance only slightly improves.


       -P, --prediction
              Use  additional predictive coding. If this optimization is enabled then the image is compressed in two
              steps. In the first step, a coarse approximation of  the  image  is  computed  using  large  unichrome
              blocks.  Finally, the delta image is computed and the prediction error is approximated using the stan‐
              dard FIASCO algorithm.


       -D N, --dictionary-size=N
              Set size of dictionary that is used when coding the luminance band to N; default is 10000,  i.e.,  the
              dictionary is not restricted.


       -C N, --chroma-dictionary=N
              Set size of dictionary that is used when coding chroma bands to N; default is 40.


       -Q N, --chroma-qfactor=N
              Reduce  the  quality  of chroma band compression N-times with respect to the user defined quality q of
              the luminance band compression (--quality=q); default is 2.


       -t N, --tiling-exponent=N
              Subdivide the image into 2^N tiles prior coding; default is 4, i.e. the image is  subdivided  into  16
              tiles. The processing order of the individual tiles is defined by the option --tiling-method=name.


       -T name, --tiling-method=name
              Order  the  individual  image  tiles (the image is subdivided into; see option --tiling-exponent=N) by
              method name; default is "desc-variance".

              desc-variance: Tiles with small variances are processed first.

              asc-variance: Tiles with large variances are processed first.

              desc-spiral: Tiles are process in spiral order starting in the middle.

              asc-spiral: Tiles are process in spiral order starting at the border.


       --rpf-mantissa=N
              Use N mantissa bits for quantized coefficients.


       --dc-rpf-mantissa=N
              Use N mantissa bits for quantized DC coefficients.


       --rpf-range=N
              Coefficients outside the quantization interval [-N,+N] are set to zero.


       --dc-rpf-range=N
              DC coefficients outside the quantization interval [-N,+N] are set to zero.


       Additional options for video compression are:


       -s N, --smooth=N
              Smooth decompressed reference frames along the partitioning borders by the given amount N. N is 0  (no
              smoothing) to 100; default is 70. This factor is stored in the FIASCO file.


       -m N, --min-level=N
              Start prediction (motion compensated prediction or additional prediction) on block level N; default is
              level 6. I.e., motion compensation is applied to all image blocks of at least 8x8 pixels (binary  tree
              level N=6), 16x8 (N=7), 16x16 (N=8), etc.


       -M N, --max-level=N
              Stop  prediction (motion compensated prediction or additional prediction) on block level N; default is
              level 10. I.e., motion compensation is applied to all image blocks of  at  most  16x16  pixels  (N=8),
              32x16 (N=9), 32x32 (N=10), etc.


       -2, --half-pixel
              Use half pixel precise motion compensation.


       -F N, --fps=N
              Set  number  of  frames per second to N. This value is stored in the FIASCO output file and is used in
              the decoder dfiasco(1) to control the framerate.


       -p type, --pattern=type
              Defines the type of inter frame compression which should be applied to individual frames  of  a  video
              stream.  type is a sequence of characters; default is "IPPPPPPPPP". Element N defines the type of pre‐
              dicting which should be used for frame N; the frame type pattern is periodically extended. Valid char‐
              acters are:

              I: intra frame, i.e., no motion compensated prediction is used at all.

              P: predicted frame, i.e., a previously encoded frame is used for prediction (forward prediction).

              B:  bidirectional  predicted  frame,  i.e.,  not only a previously shown frame but also a frame of the
              future is used for prediction (forward, backward or interpolated prediction).


       --cross-B-search
              Instead of using exhaustive search the "Cross-B-Search" algorithm is used to find  the  best  interpo‐
              lated prediction of B-frames.


       --B-as-past-ref
              Also  use  previously  encoded  B-frames when prediction the current frame. If this option is not set,
              only I- and P-frames are used to predict the current frame.


EXAMPLES
       pnmtofiasco < foo.ppm >foo.wfa
              Compress the still image "foo.ppm" to the FIASCO file "foo.wfa" using the default options.


       pnmtofiasco -2 -p "IBBPBBPBB" -fps 15 -o video.wfa foo0*.ppm
              Compress the video frames "foo0*.ppm" to the FIASCO file "video.wfa" using half pixel  precise  motion
              compensation  at  a  frame  rate  of 15 frames per second. Intra frame 1 is used to predict P-frame 4,
              frames 1 and 4 are used to predict B-frames 2 and 3, and so on. Frame 10 is again an intra-frame.


FILES
       /etc/system.fiascorc
              The systemwide initialization file.
       $HOME/.fiascorc
              The personal initialization file.


ENVIRONMENT
       FIASCO_IMAGES
              Search path for image files. Default is "./".
       FIASCO_DATA
              Search and save path for FIASCO files. Default is "./".


SEE ALSO
       fiascotopnm(1), ppmtojpeg(1), pnmtojbig(1), ppmtogif(1), pnm(5)

       Ullrich Hafner, Juergen Albert, Stefan Frank, and Michael Unger.  Weighted Finite Automata for Video Compres‐
       sion, IEEE Journal on Selected Areas In Communications, January 1998
       Ullrich  Hafner.  Low  Bit-Rate  Image and Video Coding with Weighted Finite Automata, Ph.D. thesis, Mensch &
       Buch Verlag, ISBN 3-89820-002-7, October 1999.


AUTHOR
       Ullrich Hafner <hafner@bigfoot.de>



                                                    July 12, 2000                                    pnmmtofiasco(1)
