pnmtopalm(1)                                   General Commands Manual                                  pnmtopalm(1)



NAME
       pnmtopalm - convert a portable anymap into a Palm pixmap


SYNOPSIS
       pnmtopalm [-verbose] [-depth N] [-maxdepth N] [-colormap] [-transparent color] [-offset]
       [-rle-compression|-scanline-compression] [pnmfile]


DESCRIPTION
       Reads a PNM image as input, from stdin or pnmfile.  Produces a Palm pixmap as output.

       Palm  pixmap  files are either greyscale files 1, 2, or 4 bits wide, or color files 8 bits wide, so pnmtopalm
       automatically scales colors to have an appropriate maxval, unless you specify a depth or  max  depth.   Input
       files  must  have  an  appropriate  number and set of colors for the selected output constraints.  This often
       means that you should run the PNM image through ppmquant before you pass it to pnmtopalm.  Netpbm comes  with
       several  colormap files you can use with ppmquant for this purpose.  They are palmgray2.map (4 shades of gray
       for a depth of 2), palmgray4.map (16 shades of gray for a depth of 4),  and  palmcolor8.map  (232  colors  in
       default Palm colormap).


OPTIONS
       -verbose
              Display the format of the output file.

       -depth N
              Produce  a  file  of depth N, where N must be either 1, 2, 4, 8, or 16.  Any depth greater than 1 will
              produce a version 1 or 2 bitmap.  Because the default Palm 8-bit colormap is  not  grayscale,  if  the
              input  is a grayscale or monochrome pixmap, the output will never be more than 4 bits deep, regardless
              of the specified depth.  Note that 8-bit color works only in  PalmOS  3.5  (and  higher),  and  16-bit
              direct  color  works only in PalmOS 4.0 (and higher).  However, the 16-bit direct color format is also
              compatible with the various PalmOS 3.x versions used in the Handspring Visor, so these images may also
              work in that device.

       -maxdepth N
              Produce  a  file  of minimal depth, but in any case less than N bits wide.  If you specify 16-bit, the
              output will always be 16-bit direct color.

       -offset
              Fill in the nextDepthOffset field in the file header, to provide for multiple renditions of the pixmap
              in the same file.

       -colormap
              Build a custom colormap and include it in the output file.  This is not recommended by Palm, for effi‐
              ciency reasons.  Otherwise, pnmtopalm uses the default Palm colormap for color output.

       -transparent color
              Marks one particular color as fully transparent.  The format to specify the color is either (when  for
              example  orange)  "1.0,0.5,0.0",  where the values are floats between zero and one, or with the syntax
              "#RGB", "#RRGGBB" or "#RRRRGGGGBBBB" where R, G and B are hexadecimal numbers.  This  also  makes  the
              output bitmap a version 2 bitmap.  Transparency works only on Palm OS 3.5 and higher.

       -rle-compression
              Specifies  that the output Palm bitmap will use the Palm RLE compression scheme, and will be a version
              2 bitmap.  RLE compression works only with Palm OS 3.5 and higher.

       -scanline-compression
              Specifies that the output Palm bitmap will use the Palm scanline compression scheme,  and  will  be  a
              version 2 bitmap.  Scanline compression works only in Palm OS 2.0 and higher.


SEE ALSO
       palmtopnm(1), ppmquant(1), pnm(5)


NOTES
       An  additional compression format, packbits, was added with PalmOS 4.0.  This package should be updated to be
       able to generate that.

       Palm pixmaps may contains multiple renditions of the same pixmap, in different depths.  To  construct  an  N-
       multiple-rendition  Palm  pixmap  with  pnmtopalm, first construct renditions 1 through N-1 using the -offset
       option, then construct the Nth pixmap without the -offset option.  Then concatenate the individual renditions
       together in a single file using cat.


AUTHORS
       This  program  was  originally written as ppmtoTbmp.c, by Ian Goldberg and George Caswell.  It was completely
       re-written by Bill Janssen to add color, compression, and transparency function.
       Copyright 1995-2001 by Ian Goldberg, George Caswell, and Bill Janssen.



                                                   7 December 2000                                      pnmtopalm(1)
