pnmtops(1)                                     General Commands Manual                                    pnmtops(1)



NAME
       pnmtops - convert portable anymap to PostScript

SYNOPSIS
       pnmtops  [-scale  s]  [-dpi  n]  [-imagewidth  n]  [-imageheight  n]  [-width=N]  [-height=N]  [-equalpixels]
       [-turn|-noturn] [-rle|-runlength] [-nocenter] [-setpage] [-nosetpage] [pnmfile]


       All options can be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.  You may use two hyphens instead of one.  You
       may separate an option name and its value with white space instead of an equals sign.


DESCRIPTION
       Reads a Netpbm image as input.  Produces Encapsulated PostScript as output.

       If the input file is in color (PPM), pnmtops generates a color PostScript file.  Some PostScript interpreters
       can't handle color PostScript.  If you have one of these you will need to run  your  image  through  ppmtopgm
       first.

       If  you  specify  no  output  dimensioning  options,  the output image is dimensioned as if you had specified
       -scale=1.0, which means aproximately 72 pixels of the input image generate one inch of output (if  that  fits
       the page).

       Use -imagewidth, -imageheight, -equalpixels, -width, -height, and -scale to adjust that.



OPTIONS
       -imagewidth
              -imageheight  Tells  how wide and high you want the image on the page, in inches.  The aspect ratio of
              the image is preserved, so if you specify both of these, the image on the page  will  be  the  largest
              image that will fit within the box of those dimensions.

              If these dimensions are greater than the page size, you get Postscript output that runs off the page.

              You cannot use imagewidth or imageheight with -scale or -equalpixels.


       -equalpixels
              This  option  causes the output image to have the same number of pixels as the input image.  So if the
              output device is 600 dpi and your image is 3000 pixels wide, the output image would be 5 inches wide.

              You cannot use -equalpixels with -imagewidth, -imageheight, or -scale.


       -scale tells how big you want the image on the page.  The value is the number of inches of output image  that
              you want 72 pixels of the input to generate.

              But  pnmtops  rounds the number to something that is an integral number of output device pixels.  E.g.
              if the output device is 300 dpi and you specify -scale=1.0, then 75 (not 72) pixels of  input  becomes
              one inch of output (4 output pixels for each input pixel).  Note that the -dpi option tell pnmtops how
              many pixels per inch the output device generates.

              If the size so specified does not fit on the page (as  measured  either  by  the  -width  and  -height
              options  or  the  default  page  size  of 8.5 inches by 11 inches), pnmtops ignores the -scale option,
              issues a warning, and scales the image to fit on the page.


       -dpi   This option specifies the dots per inch of your output device.  The default is  300  dpi.   In  theory
              PostScript  is  device-independent  and you don't have to worry about this, but in practice its raster
              rendering can have unsightly bands if the device pixels and the image pixels aren't in sync.

              Also this option is crucial to the working of the equalpixels option.


       -width
              -height These options specify the dimensions of the page on which the output is to be  printed.   This
              can affect the size of the output image.

              The  page size has no effect, however, when you specify the -imagewidth, -imageheight, or -equalpixels
              options.

              These options may also affect positioning of the image on the page and even  the  paper  selected  (or
              cut) by the printer/plotter when the output is printed.  See the -nosetpage option.

              The default is 8.5 inches by 11 inches.


       -turn  -noturn  These  options  control whether the image gets turned 90 degrees.  Normally, if an image fits
              the page better when turned (e.g. the image is wider than it is tall, but the page is taller  than  it
              is  wide), it gets turned automatically to better fit the page.  If you specify the -turn option, pnm‐
              tops turns the image no matter what its shape; If you specify -noturn, pnmtops does  not  turn  it  no
              matter what its shape.

       -rle   -runlength These identical options specify run-length compression.  This may save time if the host-to-
              printer link is slow; but normally the printer's processing  time  dominates,  so  -rle  makes  things
              slower.

       -nocenter
              By  default,  pnmtops  centers the image on the output page.  You can cause pnmtops to instead put the
              image against the upper left corner of the page with the -nocenter option.  This is  useful  for  pro‐
              grams which can include PostScript files, but can't cope with pictures which are not positioned in the
              upper left corner.

              For backward compatibility, pnmtops accepts the option -center, but it has no effect.


       -setpage
              pnmtops can generate a "setpagedevice" directive to tell the printer/plotter what size  paper  to  use
              (or  cut).  The dimensions it specifies on this directive are those selected or defaulted by the width
              and height options or defaulted.  If you want a "setpagedevice" directive in the output, specify -set‐
              page.   This can be useful if your printer chokes on this directive, which has not always been defined
              in Postscript, or you want to fake out the printer and print on one size paper as if  you're  printing
              on another.

              Before release 10.0 the default was to generate the "setpagedevice" directive, and there is the switch
              -nosetpage to supress it, but that's actually a no-op now.


SEE ALSO
       pnm(5), gs(1), psidtopgm(1), pstopnm(1), pbmtolps(1), pbmtoepsi(1), pbmtopsg3(1), ppmtopgm(1),


AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 by Jef Poskanzer.
       Modified November 1993 by Wolfgang Stuerzlinger, wrzl@gup.uni-linz.ac.at



                                                     25 May 2001                                          pnmtops(1)
