pnmtopng(1)                                    General Commands Manual                                   pnmtopng(1)



NAME
       pnmtopng - convert a portable anymap into a Portable Network Graphics file

SYNOPSIS
       pnmtopng [-verbose] [-downscale] [-interlace] [-alpha file]
       [-transparent [=]color] [-background color] [-gamma value]
       [-hist] [-chroma wx wy rx ry gx gy bx by] [-phys x y unit]
       [-text file] [-ztxt file] [-time [yy]yy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss]
       [-filter type] [-compression level] [-force] [pnmfile]

DESCRIPTION
       Reads a portable pixmap as input.  Produces a Portable Network Graphics file as output.

       Color  values in PNG files are either eight or sixteen bits wide, so pnmtopng will automatically scale colors
       to have a maxval of 255 or 65535.  Grayscale files will be produced with bit depths 1, 2, 4,  8  or  16.   An
       extra pnmdepth step is not necessary.

OPTIONS
       -verbose
              Display the format of the output file.

       -downscale
              Enables  scaling  of  maxvalues of more then 65535 to 16 bit. Since this means loss of image data, the
              step is not performed by default.

       -interlace
              Creates an interlaced PNG file (Adam7).

       -alpha file
              The alpha channel of pixel (or image) specifies the transparency of a pixel.  To  create  this  fourth
              pixel  value  a  separate  .pbm-  or  .pgm-file  is  needed.  In  this file black (0) stands for fully
              transparant and white (1) will become opaque. The sizes of both pbm/pgm/ppm-files must  be  the  same.
              If  the  information  contained  in the alpha mask can also be represented as a transparency index, it
              will be used, since this should result in a smaller image file.

       -transparent color
              ppmtogif marks the specified color as transparent in the PNG image.

              You specify the color as in ppmmake(1).E.g.  red or rgb:ff/00/0d.  If the color  you  specify  is  not
              present  in  the image, pnmtopnm selects instead the color in the image that is closest to the one you
              specify.  Closeness is measured as a cartesian distance between colors in RGB space.  If multiple col‐
              ors are equidistant, pnmtopnm chooses one of them arbitrarily.

              However, if you prefix your color specification with "=", e.g.

              -transparent =red

              Only  the  exact  color  you specify will be transparent.  If that color does not appear in the image,
              there will be no transparency.  pnmtopng issues an information message when this is the case.



       -background color
              To create a background color chunck in the png-file, which can be used for subsequent alpha-channel or
              transparent-color conversions. See -transparent for format of color.

       -gamma value
              Creates  an  gAMA  chunk.  By providing the gamma-value of the pnm-file the software that lateron will
              display the png-file will be able to do the necessary gamma-corrections. A good rule-of-thumb is  that
              when the file is created by a software program (like a CAD-program or a ray-tracer) the value is prob‐
              ably 1.0. When the pnm-file looks good on a non-gamma corrected PC display (which has itself a  gamma-
              value of 2.2 - 2.8), a value of 0.45 should be given.

       -hist  Use  this parameter to create a chunk that specifies the frequency (or histogram) of the colors in the
              image.

       -chroma white point X and Y, red X and Y, green X and Y, and blue X and Y
              To specify the white point and rgb values following the CIE-1931 spec.

       -phys x y unit
              When your image should not be displayed with square but with rectangular pixels this option should  be
              used  to create a pHYS chunk. When the unit-value is 0 the x and y only gives the ratio of pixel width
              and height. When it is 1 the x and y specify the number of pixels per meter.

       -text file
              Allows to include comments in the text-chunk of the png-file.  The format of the text-file is as  fol‐
              lows:  when the first column does not contain a blank or a tab, the first word is considered to be the
              keyword.  For keywords to contain spaces, enclose them in double-quotes.
              When the first character on a line is a blank or tab, the rest of the line is a new line of  the  cur‐
              rent comment.  Note that the initial spaces are not considered to be part of the comment line.

              Here is an example:
              -------------------------------------------
              Title           PNG-file
              Author          your name
              Description     how to include a text-chunk
                              into a PNG file
              "Creation date" 3-feb-1987
              Software        pnmtopng
              -------------------------------------------

       -ztxt file
              The same as -text, but now the text will be compressed.

       -time yy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss or -time yyyy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss
              This option allows you to specify the (modification)time. The year parameter can be given as a two- or
              a four-digit value.

       -filter type
              When the types of filters must be restricted you can specify  here  which  filter  you  want  to  use.
              Allowed values are: 0 (none), 1 (sub), 2 (up), 3 (avg) and 4 (paeth).

       -compression level
              To  explicitly  set  the compression level of zlib use this parameter. Select a level between 0 for no
              compression (max speed) and 9 for maximum compression.

       -force When set, -force limits the optimizations of pnmtopng. A png-file similar to the pnm-input is as  much
              as  possible enforced. For example no paletted files will be created and alpha-channel images will not
              be converted to images with a transparency chunck.

       All flags can be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.

SEE ALSO
       pngtopnm(1), gif2png(1), pnmgamma(1), pnm(5)

NOTE
       Instead of xxxtopnm|pnmtopng, a specific converter should be used, if available.  E.g.  gif2png (GIF  conver‐
       sion), etc.

BUGS
       There could be an option to read the comment text from pnm comments instead of a separate file.

       The program could be much faster, with a bit of code optimizing.

AUTHORS
       Copyright (C) 1995-1997 by Alexander Lehmann
                               and Willem van Schaik.



                                                   6 January 1997                                        pnmtopng(1)
