POD2TEXT(1)                               Perl Programmers Reference Guide                               POD2TEXT(1)



NAME
       pod2text - Convert POD data to formatted ASCII text

SYNOPSIS
       pod2text [-aclostu] [--code] [--errors=style] [-i indent]
           [-q quotes] [--nourls] [--stderr] [-w width]
           [input [output ...]]

       pod2text -h

DESCRIPTION
       pod2text is a front-end for Pod::Text and its subclasses.  It uses them to generate formatted ASCII text from
       POD source.  It can optionally use either termcap sequences or ANSI color escape sequences to format the
       text.

       input is the file to read for POD source (the POD can be embedded in code).  If input isn't given, it
       defaults to "STDIN".  output, if given, is the file to which to write the formatted output.  If output isn't
       given, the formatted output is written to "STDOUT".  Several POD files can be processed in the same pod2text
       invocation (saving module load and compile times) by providing multiple pairs of input and output files on
       the command line.

OPTIONS
       -a, --alt
           Use an alternate output format that, among other things, uses a different heading style and marks "=item"
           entries with a colon in the left margin.

       --code
           Include any non-POD text from the input file in the output as well.  Useful for viewing code documented
           with POD blocks with the POD rendered and the code left intact.

       -c, --color
           Format the output with ANSI color escape sequences.  Using this option requires that Term::ANSIColor be
           installed on your system.

       -i indent, --indent=indent
           Set the number of spaces to indent regular text, and the default indentation for "=over" blocks.
           Defaults to 4 spaces if this option isn't given.

       -errors=style
           Set the error handling style.  "die" says to throw an exception on any POD formatting error.  "stderr"
           says to report errors on standard error, but not to throw an exception.  "pod" says to include a POD
           ERRORS section in the resulting documentation summarizing the errors.  "none" ignores POD errors
           entirely, as much as possible.

           The default is "die".

       -h, --help
           Print out usage information and exit.

       -l, --loose
           Print a blank line after a "=head1" heading.  Normally, no blank line is printed after "=head1", although
           one is still printed after "=head2", because this is the expected formatting for manual pages; if you're
           formatting arbitrary text documents, using this option is recommended.

       -m width, --left-margin=width, --margin=width
           The width of the left margin in spaces.  Defaults to 0.  This is the margin for all text, including
           headings, not the amount by which regular text is indented; for the latter, see -i option.

       --nourls
           Normally, L<> formatting codes with a URL but anchor text are formatted to show both the anchor text and
           the URL.  In other words:

               L<foo|http://example.com/>

           is formatted as:

               foo <http://example.com/>

           This flag, if given, suppresses the URL when anchor text is given, so this example would be formatted as
           just "foo".  This can produce less cluttered output in cases where the URLs are not particularly
           important.

       -o, --overstrike
           Format the output with overstrike printing.  Bold text is rendered as character, backspace, character.
           Italics and file names are rendered as underscore, backspace, character.  Many pagers, such as less, know
           how to convert this to bold or underlined text.

       -q quotes, --quotes=quotes
           Sets the quote marks used to surround C<> text to quotes.  If quotes is a single character, it is used as
           both the left and right quote; if quotes is two characters, the first character is used as the left quote
           and the second as the right quoted; and if quotes is four characters, the first two are used as the left
           quote and the second two as the right quote.

           quotes may also be set to the special value "none", in which case no quote marks are added around C<>
           text.

       -s, --sentence
           Assume each sentence ends with two spaces and try to preserve that spacing.  Without this option, all
           consecutive whitespace in non-verbatim paragraphs is compressed into a single space.

       --stderr
           By default, pod2text dies if any errors are detected in the POD input.  If --stderr is given and no
           --errors flag is present, errors are sent to standard error, but pod2text does not abort.  This is
           equivalent to "--errors=stderr" and is supported for backward compatibility.

       -t, --termcap
           Try to determine the width of the screen and the bold and underline sequences for the terminal from
           termcap, and use that information in formatting the output.  Output will be wrapped at two columns less
           than the width of your terminal device.  Using this option requires that your system have a termcap file
           somewhere where Term::Cap can find it and requires that your system support termios.  With this option,
           the output of pod2text will contain terminal control sequences for your current terminal type.

       -u, --utf8
           By default, pod2text tries to use the same output encoding as its input encoding (to be backward-
           compatible with older versions).  This option says to instead force the output encoding to UTF-8.

           Be aware that, when using this option, the input encoding of your POD source must be properly declared
           unless it is US-ASCII or Latin-1.  POD input without an "=encoding" command will be assumed to be in
           Latin-1, and if it's actually in UTF-8, the output will be double-encoded.  See perlpod(1) for more
           information on the "=encoding" command.

       -w, --width=width, -width
           The column at which to wrap text on the right-hand side.  Defaults to 76, unless -t is given, in which
           case it's two columns less than the width of your terminal device.

EXIT STATUS
       As long as all documents processed result in some output, even if that output includes errata (a "POD ERRORS"
       section generated with "--errors=pod"), pod2text will exit with status 0.  If any of the documents being
       processed do not result in an output document, pod2text will exit with status 1.  If there are syntax errors
       in a POD document being processed and the error handling style is set to the default of "die", pod2text will
       abort immediately with exit status 255.

DIAGNOSTICS
       If pod2text fails with errors, see Pod::Text and Pod::Simple for information about what those errors might
       mean.  Internally, it can also produce the following diagnostics:

       -c (--color) requires Term::ANSIColor be installed
           (F) -c or --color were given, but Term::ANSIColor could not be loaded.

       Unknown option: %s
           (F) An unknown command line option was given.

       In addition, other Getopt::Long error messages may result from invalid command-line options.

ENVIRONMENT
       COLUMNS
           If -t is given, pod2text will take the current width of your screen from this environment variable, if
           available.  It overrides terminal width information in TERMCAP.

       TERMCAP
           If -t is given, pod2text will use the contents of this environment variable if available to determine the
           correct formatting sequences for your current terminal device.

SEE ALSO
       Pod::Text, Pod::Text::Color, Pod::Text::Overstrike, Pod::Text::Termcap, Pod::Simple, perlpod(1)

       The current version of this script is always available from its web site at
       <http://www.eyrie.org/~eagle/software/podlators/>.  It is also part of the Perl core distribution as of
       5.6.0.

AUTHOR
       Russ Allbery <rra@stanford.edu>.

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       Copyright 1999, 2000, 2001, 2004, 2006, 2008, 2010, 2012, 2013 Russ Allbery <rra@stanford.edu>.

       This program is free software; you may redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.



perl v5.18.2                                         2016-03-01                                          POD2TEXT(1)
