POD2LATEX(1p)                            User Contributed Perl Documentation                           POD2LATEX(1p)



NAME
       pod2latex - convert pod documentation to latex format

SYNOPSIS
         pod2latex *.pm

         pod2latex -out mytex.tex *.pod

         pod2latex -full -sections 'DESCRIPTION|NAME' SomeDir

         pod2latex -prefile h.tex -postfile t.tex my.pod

DESCRIPTION
       "pod2latex" is a program to convert POD format documentation (perlpod) into latex. It can process multiple
       input documents at a time and either generate a latex file per input document or a single combined output
       file.

OPTIONS AND ARGUMENTS
       This section describes the supported command line options. Minimum matching is supported.

       -out
           Name of the output file to be used. If there are multiple input pods it is assumed that the intention is
           to write all translated output into a single file. ".tex" is appended if not present.  If the argument is
           not supplied, a single document will be created for each input file.

       -full
           Creates a complete "latex" file that can be processed immediately (unless "=for/=begin" directives are
           used that rely on extra packages).  Table of contents and index generation commands are included in the
           wrapper "latex" code.

       -sections
           Specify pod sections to include (or remove if negated) in the translation.  See "SECTION SPECIFICATIONS"
           in Pod::Select for the format to use for section-spec. This option may be given multiple times on the
           command line.This is identical to the similar option in the "podselect()" command.

       -modify
           This option causes the output "latex" to be slightly modified from the input pod such that when a "=head1
           NAME" is encountered a section is created containing the actual pod name (rather than NAME) and all
           subsequent "=head1" directives are treated as subsections. This has the advantage that the description of
           a module will be in its own section which is helpful for including module descriptions in documentation.
           Also forces "latex" label and index entries to be prefixed by the name of the module.

       -h1level
           Specifies the "latex" section that is equivalent to a "H1" pod directive. This is an integer between 0
           and 5 with 0 equivalent to a "latex" chapter, 1 equivalent to a "latex" section etc. The default is 1
           ("H1" equivalent to a latex section).

       -help
           Print a brief help message and exit.

       -man
           Print the manual page and exit.

       -verbose
           Print information messages as each document is processed.

       -preamble
           A user-supplied preamble for the LaTeX code. Multiple values are supported and appended in order
           separated by "\n".  See -prefile for reading the preamble from a file.

       -postamble
           A user supplied postamble for the LaTeX code. Multiple values are supported and appended in order
           separated by "\n".  See -postfile for reading the postamble from a file.

       -prefile
           A user-supplied preamble for the LaTeX code to be read from the named file. Multiple values are supported
           and appended in order. See -preamble.

       -postfile
           A user-supplied postamble for the LaTeX code to be read from the named file. Multiple values are
           supported and appended in order. See -postamble.

BUGS
       Known bugs are:

       ·   Cross references between documents are not resolved when multiple pod documents are converted into a
           single output "latex" file.

       ·   Functions and variables are not automatically recognized and they will therefore not be marked up in any
           special way unless instructed by an explicit pod command.

SEE ALSO
       Pod::LaTeX

AUTHOR
       Tim Jenness <tjenness@cpan.org>

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

       Copyright (C) 2000, 2003, 2004 Tim Jenness. All Rights Reserved.



perl v5.14.2                                         2013-05-31                                        POD2LATEX(1p)
