POSTGRES(1)                                PostgreSQL 9.3.16 Documentation                               POSTGRES(1)



NAME
       postgres - PostgreSQL database server

SYNOPSIS
       postgres [option...]

DESCRIPTION
       postgres is the PostgreSQL database server. In order for a client application to access a database it
       connects (over a network or locally) to a running postgres instance. The postgres instance then starts a
       separate server process to handle the connection.

       One postgres instance always manages the data of exactly one database cluster. A database cluster is a
       collection of databases that is stored at a common file system location (the “data area”). More than one
       postgres instance can run on a system at one time, so long as they use different data areas and different
       communication ports (see below). When postgres starts it needs to know the location of the data area. The
       location must be specified by the -D option or the PGDATA environment variable; there is no default.
       Typically, -D or PGDATA points directly to the data area directory created by initdb(1). Other possible file
       layouts are discussed in Section 18.2, “File Locations”, in the documentation.

       By default postgres starts in the foreground and prints log messages to the standard error stream. In
       practical applications postgres should be started as a background process, perhaps at boot time.

       The postgres command can also be called in single-user mode. The primary use for this mode is during
       bootstrapping by initdb(1). Sometimes it is used for debugging or disaster recovery; note that running a
       single-user server is not truly suitable for debugging the server, since no realistic interprocess
       communication and locking will happen. When invoked in single-user mode from the shell, the user can enter
       queries and the results will be printed to the screen, but in a form that is more useful for developers than
       end users. In the single-user mode, the session user will be set to the user with ID 1, and implicit
       superuser powers are granted to this user. This user does not actually have to exist, so the single-user mode
       can be used to manually recover from certain kinds of accidental damage to the system catalogs.

OPTIONS
       postgres accepts the following command-line arguments. For a detailed discussion of the options consult
       Chapter 18, Server Configuration, in the documentation. You can save typing most of these options by setting
       up a configuration file. Some (safe) options can also be set from the connecting client in an
       application-dependent way to apply only for that session. For example, if the environment variable PGOPTIONS
       is set, then libpq-based clients will pass that string to the server, which will interpret it as postgres
       command-line options.

   General Purpose
       -A 0|1
           Enables run-time assertion checks, which is a debugging aid to detect programming mistakes. This option
           is only available if assertions were enabled when PostgreSQL was compiled. If so, the default is on.

       -B nbuffers
           Sets the number of shared buffers for use by the server processes. The default value of this parameter is
           chosen automatically by initdb. Specifying this option is equivalent to setting the shared_buffers
           configuration parameter.

       -c name=value
           Sets a named run-time parameter. The configuration parameters supported by PostgreSQL are described in
           Chapter 18, Server Configuration, in the documentation. Most of the other command line options are in
           fact short forms of such a parameter assignment.  -c can appear multiple times to set multiple
           parameters.

       -C name
           Prints the value of the named run-time parameter, and exits. (See the -c option above for details.) This
           can be used on a running server, and returns values from postgresql.conf, modified by any parameters
           supplied in this invocation. It does not reflect parameters supplied when the cluster was started.

           This option is meant for other programs that interact with a server instance, such as pg_ctl(1), to query
           configuration parameter values. User-facing applications should instead use SHOW(7) or the pg_settings
           view.

       -d debug-level
           Sets the debug level. The higher this value is set, the more debugging output is written to the server
           log. Values are from 1 to 5. It is also possible to pass -d 0 for a specific session, which will prevent
           the server log level of the parent postgres process from being propagated to this session.

       -D datadir
           Specifies the file system location of the database configuration files. See Section 18.2, “File
           Locations”, in the documentation for details.

       -e
           Sets the default date style to “European”, that is DMY ordering of input date fields. This also causes
           the day to be printed before the month in certain date output formats. See Section 8.5, “Date/Time
           Types”, in the documentation for more information.

       -F
           Disables fsync calls for improved performance, at the risk of data corruption in the event of a system
           crash. Specifying this option is equivalent to disabling the fsync configuration parameter. Read the
           detailed documentation before using this!

       -h hostname
           Specifies the IP host name or address on which postgres is to listen for TCP/IP connections from client
           applications. The value can also be a comma-separated list of addresses, or * to specify listening on all
           available interfaces. An empty value specifies not listening on any IP addresses, in which case only
           Unix-domain sockets can be used to connect to the server. Defaults to listening only on localhost.
           Specifying this option is equivalent to setting the listen_addresses configuration parameter.

       -i
           Allows remote clients to connect via TCP/IP (Internet domain) connections. Without this option, only
           local connections are accepted. This option is equivalent to setting listen_addresses to * in
           postgresql.conf or via -h.

           This option is deprecated since it does not allow access to the full functionality of listen_addresses.
           It's usually better to set listen_addresses directly.

       -k directory
           Specifies the directory of the Unix-domain socket on which postgres is to listen for connections from
           client applications. The value can also be a comma-separated list of directories. An empty value
           specifies not listening on any Unix-domain sockets, in which case only TCP/IP sockets can be used to
           connect to the server. The default value is normally /tmp, but that can be changed at build time.
           Specifying this option is equivalent to setting the unix_socket_directories configuration parameter.

       -l
           Enables secure connections using SSL.  PostgreSQL must have been compiled with support for SSL for this
           option to be available. For more information on using SSL, refer to Section 17.9, “Secure TCP/IP
           Connections with SSL”, in the documentation.

       -N max-connections
           Sets the maximum number of client connections that this server will accept. The default value of this
           parameter is chosen automatically by initdb. Specifying this option is equivalent to setting the
           max_connections configuration parameter.

       -o extra-options
           The command-line-style options specified in extra-options are passed to all server processes started by
           this postgres process. If the option string contains any spaces, the entire string must be quoted.

           The use of this option is obsolete; all command-line options for server processes can be specified
           directly on the postgres command line.

       -p port
           Specifies the TCP/IP port or local Unix domain socket file extension on which postgres is to listen for
           connections from client applications. Defaults to the value of the PGPORT environment variable, or if
           PGPORT is not set, then defaults to the value established during compilation (normally 5432). If you
           specify a port other than the default port, then all client applications must specify the same port using
           either command-line options or PGPORT.

       -s
           Print time information and other statistics at the end of each command. This is useful for benchmarking
           or for use in tuning the number of buffers.

       -S work-mem
           Specifies the amount of memory to be used by internal sorts and hashes before resorting to temporary disk
           files. See the description of the work_mem configuration parameter in Section 18.4.1, “Memory”, in the
           documentation.

       -V, --version
           Print the postgres version and exit.

       --name=value
           Sets a named run-time parameter; a shorter form of -c.

       --describe-config
           This option dumps out the server's internal configuration variables, descriptions, and defaults in
           tab-delimited COPY format. It is designed primarily for use by administration tools.

       -?, --help
           Show help about postgres command line arguments, and exit.

   Semi-internal Options
       The options described here are used mainly for debugging purposes, and in some cases to assist with recovery
       of severely damaged databases. There should be no reason to use them in a production database setup. They are
       listed here only for use by PostgreSQL system developers. Furthermore, these options might change or be
       removed in a future release without notice.

       -f { s | i | o | b | t | n | m | h }
           Forbids the use of particular scan and join methods: s and i disable sequential and index scans
           respectively, o, b and t disable index-only scans, bitmap index scans, and TID scans respectively, while
           n, m, and h disable nested-loop, merge and hash joins respectively.

           Neither sequential scans nor nested-loop joins can be disabled completely; the -fs and -fn options simply
           discourage the optimizer from using those plan types if it has any other alternative.

       -n
           This option is for debugging problems that cause a server process to die abnormally. The ordinary
           strategy in this situation is to notify all other server processes that they must terminate and then
           reinitialize the shared memory and semaphores. This is because an errant server process could have
           corrupted some shared state before terminating. This option specifies that postgres will not reinitialize
           shared data structures. A knowledgeable system programmer can then use a debugger to examine shared
           memory and semaphore state.

       -O
           Allows the structure of system tables to be modified. This is used by initdb.

       -P
           Ignore system indexes when reading system tables, but still update the indexes when modifying the tables.
           This is useful when recovering from damaged system indexes.

       -t pa[rser] | pl[anner] | e[xecutor]
           Print timing statistics for each query relating to each of the major system modules. This option cannot
           be used together with the -s option.

       -T
           This option is for debugging problems that cause a server process to die abnormally. The ordinary
           strategy in this situation is to notify all other server processes that they must terminate and then
           reinitialize the shared memory and semaphores. This is because an errant server process could have
           corrupted some shared state before terminating. This option specifies that postgres will stop all other
           server processes by sending the signal SIGSTOP, but will not cause them to terminate. This permits system
           programmers to collect core dumps from all server processes by hand.

       -v protocol
           Specifies the version number of the frontend/backend protocol to be used for a particular session. This
           option is for internal use only.

       -W seconds
           A delay of this many seconds occurs when a new server process is started, after it conducts the
           authentication procedure. This is intended to give an opportunity to attach to the server process with a
           debugger.

   Options for Single-User Mode
       The following options only apply to the single-user mode.

       --single
           Selects the single-user mode. This must be the first argument on the command line.

       database
           Specifies the name of the database to be accessed. This must be the last argument on the command line. If
           it is omitted it defaults to the user name.

       -E
           Echo all commands.

       -j
           Disables use of newline as a statement delimiter.

       -r filename
           Send all server log output to filename. In normal multiuser mode, this option is ignored, and stderr is
           used by all processes.

ENVIRONMENT
       PGCLIENTENCODING
           Default character encoding used by clients. (The clients can override this individually.) This value can
           also be set in the configuration file.

       PGDATA
           Default data directory location

       PGDATESTYLE
           Default value of the DateStyle run-time parameter. (The use of this environment variable is deprecated.)

       PGPORT
           Default port number (preferably set in the configuration file)

DIAGNOSTICS
       A failure message mentioning semget or shmget probably indicates you need to configure your kernel to provide
       adequate shared memory and semaphores. For more discussion see Section 17.4, “Managing Kernel Resources”, in
       the documentation. You might be able to postpone reconfiguring your kernel by decreasing shared_buffers to
       reduce the shared memory consumption of PostgreSQL, and/or by reducing max_connections to reduce the
       semaphore consumption.

       A failure message suggesting that another server is already running should be checked carefully, for example
       by using the command

           $ ps ax | grep postgres

       or

           $ ps -ef | grep postgres

       depending on your system. If you are certain that no conflicting server is running, you can remove the lock
       file mentioned in the message and try again.

       A failure message indicating inability to bind to a port might indicate that that port is already in use by
       some non-PostgreSQL process. You might also get this error if you terminate postgres and immediately restart
       it using the same port; in this case, you must simply wait a few seconds until the operating system closes
       the port before trying again. Finally, you might get this error if you specify a port number that your
       operating system considers to be reserved. For example, many versions of Unix consider port numbers under
       1024 to be “trusted” and only permit the Unix superuser to access them.

NOTES
       The utility command pg_ctl(1) can be used to start and shut down the postgres server safely and comfortably.

       If at all possible, do not use SIGKILL to kill the main postgres server. Doing so will prevent postgres from
       freeing the system resources (e.g., shared memory and semaphores) that it holds before terminating. This
       might cause problems for starting a fresh postgres run.

       To terminate the postgres server normally, the signals SIGTERM, SIGINT, or SIGQUIT can be used. The first
       will wait for all clients to terminate before quitting, the second will forcefully disconnect all clients,
       and the third will quit immediately without proper shutdown, resulting in a recovery run during restart.

       The SIGHUP signal will reload the server configuration files. It is also possible to send SIGHUP to an
       individual server process, but that is usually not sensible.

       To cancel a running query, send the SIGINT signal to the process running that command. To terminate a backend
       process cleanly, send SIGTERM to that process. See also pg_cancel_backend and pg_terminate_backend in Section
       9.26.2, “Server Signaling Functions”, in the documentation for the SQL-callable equivalents of these two
       actions.

       The postgres server uses SIGQUIT to tell subordinate server processes to terminate without normal cleanup.
       This signal should not be used by users. It is also unwise to send SIGKILL to a server process — the main
       postgres process will interpret this as a crash and will force all the sibling processes to quit as part of
       its standard crash-recovery procedure.

BUGS
       The -- options will not work on FreeBSD or OpenBSD. Use -c instead. This is a bug in the affected operating
       systems; a future release of PostgreSQL will provide a workaround if this is not fixed.

USAGE
       To start a single-user mode server, use a command like

           postgres --single -D /usr/local/pgsql/data other-options my_database

       Provide the correct path to the database directory with -D, or make sure that the environment variable PGDATA
       is set. Also specify the name of the particular database you want to work in.

       Normally, the single-user mode server treats newline as the command entry terminator; there is no
       intelligence about semicolons, as there is in psql. To continue a command across multiple lines, you must
       type backslash just before each newline except the last one.

       But if you use the -j command line switch, then newline does not terminate command entry. In this case, the
       server will read the standard input until the end-of-file (EOF) marker, then process the input as a single
       command string. Backslash-newline is not treated specially in this case.

       To quit the session, type EOF (Control+D, usually). If you've used -j, two consecutive EOFs are needed to
       exit.

       Note that the single-user mode server does not provide sophisticated line-editing features (no command
       history, for example). Single-User mode also does not do any background processing, like automatic
       checkpoints.

EXAMPLES
       To start postgres in the background using default values, type:

           $ nohup postgres >logfile 2>&1 </dev/null &

       To start postgres with a specific port, e.g. 1234:

           $ postgres -p 1234

       To connect to this server using psql, specify this port with the -p option:

           $ psql -p 1234

       or set the environment variable PGPORT:

           $ export PGPORT=1234
           $ psql

       Named run-time parameters can be set in either of these styles:

           $ postgres -c work_mem=1234
           $ postgres --work-mem=1234

       Either form overrides whatever setting might exist for work_mem in postgresql.conf. Notice that underscores
       in parameter names can be written as either underscore or dash on the command line. Except for short-term
       experiments, it's probably better practice to edit the setting in postgresql.conf than to rely on a
       command-line switch to set a parameter.

SEE ALSO
       initdb(1), pg_ctl(1)



PostgreSQL 9.3.16                                       2017                                             POSTGRES(1)
