ppmchange(1)                                   General Commands Manual                                  ppmchange(1)



NAME
       ppmchange - change all pixels of one color to another in a portable pixmap

SYNOPSIS
       ppmchange  [  -closeness  closeness_percent ] [ -remainder remainder_color ] [ oldcolor newcolor ] ...  [ppm‐
       file]


DESCRIPTION
       Reads a portable pixmap as input.  Changes all pixels of oldcolor to newcolor.  You may  specify  up  to  256
       oldcolor/newcolor pairs on the command line.  ppmchange leaves all colors not mentioned unchanged, unless you
       specify the -remainder option, in which case they are all changed to the single specified color.

       You can specify that colors similar, but not identical, to the ones you specify get replaced by specifying  a
       "closeness" factor.


       The colors can be specified in five ways:

       o      A name, assuming that a pointer to an X11-style color names file was compiled in.

       o      An X11-style hexadecimal specifier: rgb:r/g/b, where r g and b are each 1- to 4-digit hexadecimal num‐
              bers.

       o      An X11-style decimal specifier: rgbi:r/g/b, where r g and b are floating point numbers between  0  and
              1.

       o      For  backwards  compatibility,  an  old-X11-style  hexadecimal  number:  #rgb, #rrggbb, #rrrgggbbb, or
              #rrrrggggbbbb.

       o      For backwards compatibility, a triplet of numbers separated by commas: r,g,b, where  r  g  and  b  are
              floating  point  numbers  between  0 and 1.  (This style was added before MIT came up with the similar
              rgbi style.)

              If a pixel matches two different oldcolors, ppmchange replaces it with the newcolor  of  the  leftmost
              specified one.



OPTIONS
       -closeness closeness_percent
              closeness is an integer per centage indicating how close to the color you specified a pixel must be to
              get replaced.  By default, it is 0, which means the pixel must be the exact color you specified.

              A pixel gets replaced if the distance in color between it and the color you specified is less than  or
              equal to closeness.

              The  "distance"  in color is defined as the cartesian sum of the individual differences in red, green,
              and blue intensities between the two pixels, normalized so that the difference between black and white
              is 100%.

              This  is  probably simpler than what you want most the time.  You probably would like to change colors
              that have similar chrominance, regardless of their intensity.  So if there's a red barn that is  vari‐
              ously shadowed, you want the entire barn changed.  But because the shadowing significantly changes the
              color according to ppmchange's distance formula, parts of the barn are probably about  as  distant  in
              color from other parts of the barn as they are from green grass next to the barn.

              Maybe ppmchange will be enhanced some day to do chrominance analysis.


       -remainder color
              ppmchange  changes  all  pixels which are not of a color for which you specify an explicit replacement
              color on the command line to color color.

              An example application of this is

              ppmchange -remainder=black red red

              to lift only the red portions from an image, or

              ppmchange -remainder=black red white | ppmtopgm

              to create a mask file for the red portions of the image.


SEE ALSO
       pgmtoppm(1), ppmcolormask(1), ppm(5)


AUTHOR
       Wilson H. Bent. Jr. (whb@usc.edu) with modifications by Alberto Accomazzi (alberto@cfa.harvard.edu)



                                                   07 January 2001                                      ppmchange(1)
