PPMCIE(1)                                      General Commands Manual                                     PPMCIE(1)



NAME
       ppmcie - draw a CIE color chart as a PPM image


SYNOPSIS
       ppmcie [-rec709|-cie|-ebu|-hdtv|-ntsc|-smpte] [-xy|-upvp] [-red rx ry] [-green gx gy] [-blue bx by] [-white
                wx wy] [-size edge] [-xsize|-width width] [-ysize|-height height] [-noblack] [-nowpoint] [-nolabel]
                [-noaxes] [-full]

       All options can be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.


DESCRIPTION
       ppmcie  creates a PPM file containing a plot of the CIE ``tongue'' color chart -- to the extent possible in a
       PPM image.  Alternatively, creates a pseudo-PPM image of the color tongue using RGB values from a color  sys‐
       tem of your choice.

       The  CIE  color tongue is an image of all the hues that can be described by CIE X-Y chromaticity coordinates.
       They are arranged on a two dimensional coordinate plane with the X chromaticity on the  horizontal  axis  and
       the  Y chromaticity on the vertical scale.  (You can choose alternatively to use CIE u'-v' chromaticity coor‐
       dinates, but the general idea of the color tongue is the same).

       Note that the PPM format specifies that the RGB values in the file are from CIE Rec. 709 color system, gamma-
       corrected.   And  positive.   See  ppm(5) for details.  If you use one of the color system options on ppmcie,
       what you get is not a true PPM image, but is very similar.  If you display such ppmcie output using a  device
       that expects PPM input (which includes just about any computer graphics display program), it will display the
       wrong colors.

       However, you may have a device that expects one of these variations on PPM.

       In every RGB color system you can specify, including the default (which produces a true PPM image) there  are
       hues  in the color tongue that can't be represented.  For example, monochromatic blue-green with a wavelength
       of 500nm cannot be represented in a PPM image.

       For these hues, ppmcie substitutes a similar hue as follows: They are desaturated and rendered as  the  shade
       where  the  edge  of the Maxwell triangle intersects a line drawn from the requested shade to the white point
       defined by the color system's white point.  Furthermore, unless you specify the -full option, ppmcie  reduces
       their intensity by 25% compared to the true hues in the image.

       ppmcie draws and labels the CIE X-Y coordinate axes unless you choose otherwise with options.

       ppmcie  draws  the Maxwell triangle for the color system in use on the color tongue.  The Maxwell triangle is
       the triangle whose vertices are the primary illuminant hues for the color system.  The hues inside the trian‐
       gle  show the color gamut for the color system.  They are also the only ones that are correct for the CIE X-Y
       chromaticity coordinates shown.  (See explanation above).

       ppmcie also places a mark at the color system's white point and displays in text the CIE  X-Y  chromaticities
       of the primary illuminants and white point for the color system.  You can turn this off with options, though.

       ppmcie  annotates  the  periphery of the color tongue with the wavelength, in nanometers of the monochromatic
       hues which appear there.

       Finally, ppmcie displays the black body chromaticity curve for Planckian radiators from 1000 to 30000 kelvins
       on the image.

       You can choose from several standard color systems, or specify one of your own numerically.


       CIE  charts, by their very nature, contain a very large number of colors.  If you're encoding the chart for a
       color mapped device or file format, you'll need to use ppmquant or ppmdither to reduce the number  of  colors
       in the image.


OPTIONS
       -rec709|-cie|-ebu|-hdtv|-ntsc|-smpte
                 Select a standard color system whose gamut to plot.  The default is -rec709, which chooses CIE Rec.
                 709, gamma-corrected.  This is the only color system for which ppmcie's output is a true PPM image.
                 See  explanation  above.   -ebu  chooses the primaries used in the PAL and SECAM broadcasting stan‐
                 dards.  -ntsc chooses the primaries specified by the NTSC broadcasting system (few modern  monitors
                 actually cover this range).  -smpte selects the primaries recommended by the Society of Motion Pic‐
                 ture and Television Engineers (SMPTE) in standards RP-37 and RP-145, and -hdtv uses the much broad‐
                 er  HDTV  ideal  primaries.  -cie chooses a color system that has the largest possible gamut within
                 the spectrum of the chart.  This is the same color system as you get with the -cie option  to  John
                 Walker's cietoppm program.


       -xy       plot CIE 1931 x y chromaticities.  This is the default.

       -upvp     plot u' v' 1976 chromaticities rather than CIE 1931 x y chromaticities.  The advantage of u' v' co‐
                 ordinates is that equal intervals of distance on the u' v' plane correspond roughly  to  the  eye's
                 ability to discriminate colors.

       -red rx ry
                 specifies  the  CIE x and y co-ordinates of the red illuminant of a custom color system and selects
                 the custom system.

       -green gx gy
                 specifies the CIE x and y co-ordinates of the green illuminant of the color system and selects  the
                 custom system.

       -blue bx by
                 specifies  the  CIE x and y co-ordinates of the blue illuminant of the color system and selects the
                 custom system.

       -white wx wy
                 specifies the CIE x and y co-ordinates of the white point of the color system and selects the  cus‐
                 tom system.

       -size edge
                 Create a pixmap of edge by edge pixels.  The default is 512x512.

       -xsize|-width width
                 Sets  the  width  of the generated image to width pixels.  The default width is 512 pixels.  If the
                 height and width of the image are not the same, the CIE diagram will be stretched in the longer di‐
                 mension.

       -ysize|-height height
                 Sets the height of the generated image to height pixels.  The default height is 512 pixels.  If the
                 height and width of the image are not the same, the CIE diagram will be stretched in the longer di‐
                 mension.

       -noblack  Don't plot the black body chromaticity curve.

       -nowpoint Don't plot the color system's white point.

       -nolabel  Omit the label.

       -noaxes   Don't plot axes.

       -full     Plot  the  entire CIE tongue in full intensity; don't enhance the gamut of the specified color sys‐
                 tem.


SEE ALSO
       ppmdither(1), ppmquant(1), ppm(5)


AUTHOR
                                  Copyright (C) 1995 by John Walker (kelvin@fourmilab.ch)
                                          WWW home page: http://www.fourmilab.ch/

       Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and with‐
       out fee is hereby granted, without any conditions or restrictions.  This software is provided ``as is'' with‐
       out express or implied warranty.



                                                 26th September 1994                                       PPMCIE(1)
