ppmforge(1)                                    General Commands Manual                                   ppmforge(1)



NAME
       ppmforge - fractal forgeries of clouds, planets, and starry skies

SYNOPSIS
       ppmforge [-clouds] [-night] [-dimension dimen] [-hour hour] [-inclination|-tilt angle] [-mesh size] [-power
                factor] [-glaciers level] [-ice level] [-saturation sat] [-seed seed] [-stars fraction]
                [-xsize|-width width] [-ysize|-height height]

DESCRIPTION
       ppmforge generates three kinds of ``random fractal forgeries,'' the term coined by Richard F. Voss of the IBM
       Thomas J. Watson Research Center for seemingly realistic pictures of natural objects generated by simple  al‐
       gorithms  embodying  randomness and fractal self-similarity.  The techniques used by ppmforge are essentially
       those given by Voss[1], particularly the technique of spectral synthesis explained in more detail by  Dietmar
       Saupe[2].

       The  program  generates two varieties of pictures: planets and clouds, which are just different renderings of
       data generated in an identical manner, illustrating the unity of the fractal structure of these very  differ‐
       ent objects.  A third type of picture, a starry sky, is synthesised directly from pseudorandom numbers.

       The  generation  of planets or clouds begins with the preparation of an array of random data in the frequency
       domain.  The size of this array, the ``mesh size,'' can be set with the -mesh option; the larger the mesh the
       more  realistic  the  pictures but the calculation time and memory requirement increases as the square of the
       mesh size.  The fractal dimension, which you can specify with the -dimension option, determines the roughness
       of  the  terrain  on the planet or the scale of detail in the clouds.  As the fractal dimension is increased,
       more high frequency components are added into the random mesh.

       Once the mesh is generated, an inverse two dimensional Fourier transform is performed upon it.  This converts
       the  original random frequency domain data into spatial amplitudes.  We scale the real components that result
       from the Fourier transform into numbers from 0 to 1 associated with each point on the mesh.  You can  further
       modify  this  number by applying a ``power law scale'' to it with the -power option.   Unity scale leaves the
       numbers unmodified; a power scale of 0.5 takes the square root of the numbers in  the  mesh,  while  a  power
       scale of 3 replaces the numbers in the mesh with their cubes.  Power law scaling is best envisioned by think‐
       ing of the data as representing the elevation of terrain; powers less than 1 yield landscapes  with  vertical
       scarps  that  look like glacially-carved valleys; powers greater than one make fairy-castle spires (which re‐
       quire large mesh sizes and high resolution for best results).

       After these calculations, we have a array of the specified size containing numbers that range from  0  to  1.
       The pixmaps are generated as follows:

       Clouds    A  colour map is created that ranges from pure blue to white by increasing admixture (desaturation)
                 of blue with white.  Numbers less than 0.5 are coloured blue,  numbers  between  0.5  and  1.0  are
                 coloured with corresponding levels of white, with 1.0 being pure white.

       Planet    The  mesh is projected onto a sphere.  Values less than 0.5 are treated as water and values between
                 0.5 and 1.0 as land.  The water areas are coloured based upon the water depth, and  land  based  on
                 its elevation.  The random depth data are used to create clouds over the oceans.  An atmosphere ap‐
                 proximately like the Earth's is simulated; its light absorption is calculated to create a blue cast
                 around the limb of the planet.  A function that rises from 0 to 1 based on latitude is modulated by
                 the local elevation to generate polar ice caps--high altitude terrain carries glaciers farther from
                 the  pole.   Based on the position of the star with respect to the observer, the apparent colour of
                 each pixel of the planet is calculated by ray-tracing from the star to the planet to  the  observer
                 and  applying a lighting model that sums ambient light and diffuse reflection (for most planets am‐
                 bient light is zero, as their primary star is the only source of illumination).  Additional  random
                 data are used to generate stars around the planet.

       Night     A sequence of pseudorandom numbers is used to generate stars with a user specified density.

       Cloud pictures always contain 256 or fewer colours and may be displayed on most colour mapped devices without
       further processing.  Planet pictures often contain tens of thousands of colours which must be compressed with
       ppmquant  or  ppmdither before encoding in a colour mapped format.  If the display resolution is high enough,
       ppmdither generally produces better looking planets.  ppmquant tends to create discrete colour bands, partic‐
       ularly  in  the  oceans, which are unrealistic and distracting.  The number of colours in starry sky pictures
       generated with the -night option depends on the value specified for  -saturation.   Small  values  limit  the
       colour  temperature distribution of the stars and reduce the number of colours in the image.  If the -satura‐
       tion is set to 0, none of the stars will be coloured and the resulting image will never contain more than 256
       colours.   Night  sky pictures with many different star colours often look best when colour compressed by pn‐
       mdepth rather than ppmquant or ppmdither.  Try newmaxval settings of 63, 31, or 15 with  pnmdepth  to  reduce
       the number of colours in the picture to 256 or fewer.

OPTIONS
       -clouds   Generate  clouds.   A pixmap of fractal clouds is generated.  Selecting clouds sets the default for
                 fractal dimension to 2.15 and power scale factor to 0.75.

       -dimension dimen
                 Sets the fractal dimension to the specified dimen, which may be any floating point value between  0
                 and  3.   Higher fractal dimensions create more ``chaotic'' images, which require higher resolution
                 output and a larger FFT mesh size to look good.  If no dimension is specified,  2.4  is  used  when
                 generating planets and 2.15 for clouds.

       -glaciers level
                 The  floating  point level setting controls the extent to which terrain elevation causes ice to ap‐
                 pear at lower latitudes.  The default value of 0.75 makes the polar caps extend toward the  equator
                 across  high  terrain and forms glaciers in the highest mountains, as on Earth.  Higher values make
                 ice sheets that cover more and more of the land surface, simulating planets in the midst of an  ice
                 age.  Lower values tend to be boring, resulting in unrealistic geometrically-precise ice cap bound‐
                 aries.

       -hour hour
                 When generating a planet, hour is used as the ``hour angle at the central meridian.''  If you spec‐
                 ify  -hour 12, for example, the planet will be fully illuminated, corresponding to high noon at the
                 longitude at the centre of the screen.  You can specify any floating point value between 0  and  24
                 for  hour,  but  values  which place most of the planet in darkness (0 to 4 and 20 to 24) result in
                 crescents which, while pretty, don't give you many illuminated pixels for the amount  of  computing
                 that's  required.   If  no -hour option is specified, a random hour angle is chosen, biased so that
                 only 25% of the images generated will be crescents.

       -ice level
                 Sets the extent of the polar ice caps to the given floating point level.  The default level of  0.4
                 produces  ice  caps  similar to those of the Earth.  Smaller values reduce the amount of ice, while
                 larger -ice settings create more prominent ice caps.  Sufficiently large values,  such  as  100  or
                 more, in conjunction with small settings for -glaciers (try 0.1) create ``ice balls'' like Europa.

       -inclination|-tilt angle
                 The  inclination  angle of the planet with regard to its primary star is set to angle, which can be
                 any floating point value from -90 to 90.  The inclination angle can be thought of as specifying, in
                 degrees,  the  ``season''  the planet is presently experiencing or, more precisely, the latitude at
                 which the star transits the zenith at local noon.  If 0, the planet is at equinox; the star is  di‐
                 rectly overhead at the equator.  Positive values represent summer in the northern hemisphere, nega‐
                 tive values summer in the southern hemisphere.  The Earth's  inclination  angle,  for  example,  is
                 about 23.5 at the June solstice, 0 at the equinoxes in March and September, and -23.5 at the Decem‐
                 ber solstice.  If no inclination angle is specified, a random value between -21.6 and 21.6  degrees
                 is chosen.

       -mesh size
                 A  mesh  of  size  by size will be used for the fast Fourier transform (FFT).  Note that memory re‐
                 quirements and computation speed increase as the square of size; if you double the mesh  size,  the
                 program  will  use  four times the memory and run four times as long.  The default mesh is 256x256,
                 which produces reasonably good looking pictures while using half a megabyte for the  256x256  array
                 of single precision complex numbers required by the FFT.  On machines with limited memory capacity,
                 you may have to reduce the mesh size to avoid running out of RAM.  Increasing the  mesh  size  pro‐
                 duces  better looking pictures; the difference becomes particularly noticeable when generating high
                 resolution images with relatively high fractal dimensions (between 2.2 and 3).

       -night    A starry sky is generated.  The stars are created by the same algorithm used  for  the  stars  that
                 surround planet pictures, but the output consists exclusively of stars.

       -power factor
                 Sets the ``power factor'' used to scale elevations synthesised from the FFT to factor, which can be
                 any floating point number greater than zero.  If no factor is specified a default of 1.2 is used if
                 a  planet  is being generated, or 0.75 if clouds are selected by the -clouds option.  The result of
                 the FFT image synthesis is an array of elevation values between 0 and 1.  A non-unity power  factor
                 exponentiates  each  of  these elevations to the specified power.  For example, a power factor of 2
                 squares each value, while a power factor of 0.5 replaces each with its square root.  (Note that ex‐
                 ponentiating  values  between  0 and 1 yields values that remain within that range.)  Power factors
                 less than 1 emphasise large-scale elevation changes at the expense of small variations.  Power fac‐
                 tors  greater  than  1 increase the roughness of the terrain and, like high fractal dimensions, may
                 require a larger FFT mesh size and/or higher screen resolution to look good.

       -saturation sat
                 Controls the degree of colour saturation of the stars that surround planet pictures and fill starry
                 skies  created  with  the -night option.  The default value of 125 creates stars which resemble the
                 sky as seen by the human eye from Earth's surface.  Stars are dim; only the brightest activate  the
                 cones  in  the  human retina, causing colour to be perceived.  Higher values of sat approximate the
                 appearance of stars from Earth orbit, where better dark adaptation, absence  of  skyglow,  and  the
                 concentration  of  light  from a given star onto a smaller area of the retina thanks to the lack of
                 atmospheric turbulence enhances the perception of colour.  Values greater than 250 create ``science
                 fiction'' skies that, while pretty, don't occur in this universe.

                 Thanks  to  the  inverse square law combined with Nature's love of mediocrity, there are many, many
                 dim stars for every bright one.  This population relationship is accurately reflected in the  skies
                 created  by ppmforge.  Dim, low mass stars live much longer than bright massive stars, consequently
                 there are many reddish stars for every blue giant.  This relationship  is  preserved  by  ppmforge.
                 You  can  reverse the proportion, simulating the sky as seen in a starburst galaxy, by specifying a
                 negative sat value.

       -seed num Sets the seed for the random number generator to the integer num.  The seed  used  to  create  each
                 picture  is displayed on standard output (unless suppressed with the -quiet option).  Pictures gen‐
                 erated with the same seed will be identical.  If no -seed is specified, a random seed derived  from
                 the  date  and  time will be chosen.  Specifying an explicit seed allows you to re-render a picture
                 you particularly like at a higher resolution or with different viewing parameters.

       -stars fraction
                 Specifies the percentage of pixels, in tenths of a percent, which will appear as stars, either sur‐
                 rounding a planet or filling the entire frame if -night is specified.  The default fraction is 100.

       -xsize|-width width
                 Sets  the  width  of the generated image to width pixels.  The default width is 256 pixels.  Images
                 must be at least as wide as they are high; if a width less than the height is specified, it will be
                 increased  to equal the height.  If you must have a long skinny pixmap, make a square one with ppm‐
                 forge, then use pnmcut to extract a portion of the shape and size you require.

       -ysize|-height height
                 Sets the height of the generated image to height pixels.  The default height is 256 pixels.  If the
                 height specified exceeds the width, the width will be increased to equal the height.

       All flags can be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.

BUGS
       The  algorithms  require  the output pixmap to be at least as wide as it is high, and the width to be an even
       number of pixels.  These constraints are enforced by increasing the size of the requested  pixmap  if  neces‐
       sary.

       You  may  have  to  reduce the FFT mesh size on machines with 16 bit integers and segmented pointer architec‐
       tures.

SEE ALSO
       pnmcut(1), pnmdepth(1), ppmdither(1), ppmquant(1), ppm(5)

       [1]  Voss, Richard F., ``Random Fractal Forgeries,'' in Earnshaw et. al., Fundamental Algorithms for Computer
            Graphics, Berlin: Springer-Verlag, 1985.

       [2]  Peitgen, H.-O., and Saupe, D. eds., The Science Of Fractal Images, New York: Springer Verlag, 1988.

AUTHOR
            John Walker
            Autodesk SA
            Avenue des Champs-Montants 14b
            CH-2074 MARIN
            Suisse/Schweiz/Svizzera/Svizra/Switzerland
            Usenet:  kelvin@Autodesk.com
            Fax:     038/33 88 15
            Voice:   038/33 76 33

       Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and with‐
       out fee is hereby granted, without any conditions or restrictions.  This software is provided ``as is'' with‐
       out express or implied warranty.

       PLUGWARE!   If you like this kind of stuff, you may also enjoy ``James Gleick's Chaos--The Software'' for MS-
       DOS, available for $59.95 from your local software store or directly from Autodesk, Inc., Attn:  Science  Se‐
       ries, 2320 Marinship Way, Sausalito, CA 94965, USA.  Telephone: (800) 688-2344 toll-free or, outside the U.S.
       (415) 332-2344 Ext 4886.  Fax: (415) 289-4718.  ``Chaos--The Software'' includes a more comprehensive fractal
       forgery  generator  which  creates three-dimensional landscapes as well as clouds and planets, plus five more
       modules which explore other aspects of Chaos.  The user guide of more than 200 pages includes an introduction
       by  James Gleick and detailed explanations by Rudy Rucker of the mathematics and algorithms used by each pro‐
       gram.



                                                   25 October 1991                                       ppmforge(1)
