PPMFADE(1)                                     General Commands Manual                                    PPMFADE(1)



NAME
       ppmfade - generate a transition between two image files using special effects.

SYNOPSIS
       ppmfade  [  -f first.ppm ] [ -l last.ppm ] [ -mix|-spread|-shift|-relief|-oil|-edge|-bentley|-block ] [ -base
       name ]


DESCRIPTION
       This program generates a transition between either two input images or between one  input  image  and  black.
       You  can  use  the  30 intermediate images generated to show a smooth transition between segments of a movie.
       The input and output images are in the Portable Pixmap (PPM) format.  If you specify both input images,  they
       should  both  be the same size.  If you want to fade from black to an image, specify only the last image.  If
       you want to fade from an image to black, specify only the first image.  ppmfade  names  the  resulting  image
       files  base.nnnn .ppm, where nnnn is a number varying between 0001 and 0030 and base is what you specify with
       via the -base option (default fade).

       Another way to convert by steps from one image to another is morphing.  You can use xmorph to do that.


OPTIONS
       -f first.ppm
              This is the image file (PPM format) to be used at the beginning of the transition.  If not  specified,
              the fade will start from black.

       -l last.ppm
              This is the image file (PPM format) to be used at the ending of the transition.  If not specified, the
              fade will end with black.

       -mix   The two images are superimposed with the brightness of the first image decreasing from  full  to  none
              and  the  brightness  of the final image increasing from none to full.  The transition is quadratic in
              brightness with faster transition in the beginning and slower at the end.

       -spread
              The pixels in the first image will be moved (spread) further and further from their original  location
              and then moved into the proper location in the final image.  This is the default transition.

       -shift The  pixels  in  the  first image will be shifted further and further horizontally from their original
              location and then moved into the proper location in the final image.

       -relief
              The first image is faded to a Laplacian relief filtered version of the  first  image.   This  is  then
              faded to a Laplacian relief filtered version of the second image and finally faded to the final image.

       -oil   The  first  image  is faded to an "oil transfer" version of the first image.  This is then faded to an
              "oil transfer" version of the second image and finally faded to the final image.

       -edge  The first image is faded to an edge detected version of the first image.  This is  then  faded  to  an
              edge detected version of the second image and finally faded to the final image.

       -bentley
              The  first  image  is faded to a "Bentley Effect" version of the first image.  This is then faded to a
              "Bentley Effect" version of the second image and finally faded to the final image.

       -block The first image is defocused to small blocks.  The small blocks are converted  to  match  a  defocused
              version of the last image.  The block version of the last image is then focused to the final image.

       -basename
              This forms part of the output filenames, as described above.



       EXAMPLES
              ppmfade -f teapot.ppm -l pyr.ppm

              Fade  from  teapot.ppm to pyr.ppm generating fade.0001.ppm to fade.0030.ppm using the "spread" transi‐
              tion.

              ppmfade -l teapot.ppm

              Fade from black to teapot.ppm generating fade.0001.ppm to fade.0030.ppm.

              ppmfade -f teapot.ppm -base end

              Fade from teapot.ppm to black generating end.0001.ppm to end.0030.ppm.


SEE ALSO
       tontsc(1), sgifade(1), smart_vfr(1), xmorph(1), ppm(5),


AUTHOR
       Wesley C. Barris (wesb@msc.edu)
       Army High Performance Computing Research Center (AHPCRC)
       Minnesota Supercomputer Center, Inc.



1                                                   April 1, 2000                                         PPMFADE(1)
