ppmlabel(1)                                    General Commands Manual                                   ppmlabel(1)



NAME
       ppmlabel - add text to a portable pixmap

SYNOPSIS
       ppmlabel [-angle angle] [-background transparent | colour] [-colour colour] [-file filename] [-size textsize]
                [-text 'text string'] [-x column] [-y row] ...  [ppmfile]

DESCRIPTION
       ppmlabel uses the text drawing facilities of ppmdraw to add text to a portable pixmap.  The  location,  size,
       baseline  angle,  colour of the text and background colour (if any) are controlled by command line arguments.
       The text can be specified on the command line or read from files.  Any number of separate text strings can be
       added by one invocation of ppmlabel, limited only by the maximum length of the command line.

       If no ppmfile is specified, ppmdraw reads its input pixmap from standard input.

OPTIONS
       The  arguments on the ppmlabel command line are not options in the strict sense; they are commands which con‐
       trol the placement and appearance of the text being added to the input pixmap.  They  are  executed  left  to
       right, and any number of arguments may appear.

       All flags can be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.

       -angle angle
                 Sets the angle of the baseline of subsequent text.  angle is specified as an integral number of de‐
                 grees, measured counterclockwise from the row axis of the pixmap.

       -background transparent | colour
                 If the argument is ``transparent'', text is drawn over the existing pixels in  the  pixmap.   If  a
                 colour  is  given (see the -colour switch below for information on how to specify colours), rectan‐
                 gles enclosing subsequent text are filled with that colour.

       -colour colour
                 Sets the colour for subsequent text.  The colour can be specified in five ways:

                 ·      A name, assuming that a pointer to an X11-style colour names file was compiled in.

                 ·      An X11-style hexadecimal specifier: rgb:r/g/b, where r g and b are each 1- to 4-digit  hexa‐
                        decimal numbers.

                 ·      An  X11-style  decimal specifier: rgbi:r/g/b, where r g and b are floating point numbers be‐
                        tween 0 and 1.

                 ·      For backwards compatibility, an old-X11-style hexadecimal number: #rgb, #rrggbb, #rrrgggbbb,
                        or #rrrrggggbbbb.

                 ·      For  backwards compatibility, a triplet of numbers separated by commas: r,g,b, where r g and
                        b are floating point numbers between 0 and 1.  (This style was added before MIT came up with
                        the similar rgbi style.)

       -file filename
                 Reads text from the file filename and draws it on successive lines.

       -size textsize
                 Sets the height of the tallest characters above the baseline to textsize pixels.

       -text 'text string'
                 Draws  the given text string (which must be quoted if it contains spaces).  The location for subse‐
                 quent text is advanced by 1.75 times the current textsize, which allows drawing multiple  lines  of
                 text in a reasonable manner without specifying the position of each line.

       -x column Sets  the  column  at  which subsequent text will be left justified.  Depending on the shape of the
                 first character, the actual text may begin a few pixels to the right of this point.

       -y row    Sets the row which will form the baseline of subsequent text.  Characters with descenders, such  as
                 ``y'', will extend below this line.

BUGS
       Text  strings are restricted to 7 bit ASCII.  The text font used by ppmdraw doesn't include definitions for 8
       bit ISO 8859/1 characters.

       When drawing multiple lines of text with a non-transparent background, it should probably fill the space  be‐
       tween  the  lines with the background colour.  This is tricky to get right when the text is rotated to a non-
       orthogonal angle.

       The -size, -x, and -y options MUST precede the -text option specifying the string they apply to, or they will
       be silently ignored in favor of the defaults.

SEE ALSO
       ppmmake(1), ppm(5)

AUTHOR
                                  Copyright (C) 1995 by John Walker (kelvin@fourmilab.ch)
                                          WWW home page: http://www.fourmilab.ch/

       Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and with‐
       out fee is hereby granted, without any conditions or restrictions.  This software is provided ``as is'' with‐
       out express or implied warranty.



                                                    14 June 1995                                         ppmlabel(1)
