PPMNTSC(1)                                     General Commands Manual                                    PPMNTSC(1)



NAME
       ppmntsc - make a portable pixmap look like taken from an American TV

SYNOPSIS
       ppmntsc [ --pal ] [ --legalonly ] [ --illegalonly ] [ --correctedonly ] [ --verbose ] [ --debug ] [ infile ]

       Minimum unique abbreviations of options are acceptable.


DESCRIPTION
       This  program makes colors legal in the NTSC (or PAL) color systems.  Often, images generated on the computer
       are made for use in movies which ultimately end up on video tape.  However, the range of colors (as specified
       by  their RGB values) on a computer does not match the range of colors that can be represented using the NTSC
       (or PAL) systems.  If an image with "illegal" colors is sent directly to an NTSC (or PAL)  video  system  for
       recording, the "illegal" colors will be clipped.  This may result in an undesirable looking picture.

       This  utility  tests each pixel in an image to see if it falls within the legal NTSC (or PAL) range.  If not,
       it raises or lowers the pixel's saturation in the output so that it does fall within  legal  limits.   Pixels
       that are already OK just go unmodified into the output.

       Input  is  from  the  file  named  input.  If input is -, input is from Standard Input.  If you don't specify
       input, input is from Standard Input.

       Output is always to Standard Output.

       This program handles multi-image PPM input, producing multi-image PPM output.


OPTIONS
       --pal  Use the PAL transform instead of the default NTSC.

       --verbose
              Print a grand total of the number of illegal pixels.

       --debug
              Produce a humongous listing of illegal colors and their legal counterparts.  NOTE:   This  option  may
              produce a great deal of output.

       --legalonly
              Output only pixels that are already legal.  Output black in place of pixels that are not.

       --illegalonly
              Output  only  pixels  that are illegal (and output them uncorrected).  Output black in place of pixels
              that are already legal.

       --correctedonly
              Output only pixels that are corrected versions of illegal pixels.  Output black  in  place  of  pixels
              that are already legal.


SEE ALSO
       ppm(5), ppmdepth(1), ppmdim(1), ppmbrighten(1)

AUTHOR
       Wes Barris, Minnesota Supercomputer Center, Inc., Bryan Henderson



4th Berkeley Distribution                          April 19, 2000                                         PPMNTSC(1)
