ppmrainbow(1)                                  General Commands Manual                                 ppmrainbow(1)



NAME
       ppmrainbow - Generate a rainbow


SYNOPSIS
       ppmrainbow [-width=number] [-height=number]
       [-tmpdir=directory] [-verbose] color ...


       All  options  can  be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.  You may use two hyphens instead of one to
       designate an option.  You may use either white space or equals signs between an option name and its value.


DESCRIPTION
       ppmrainbow generates a PPM image that fades from one color to another to another from left to right,  like  a
       rainbow.   The  colors  are  those  you specify on the command line, in that order.  The first color is added
       again on the right end of the image.

       If you want a vertical or other non-horizontal rainbow, run the output through pnmrotate.

       One use for such a rainbow is to compose it with another image under an alpha mask in order to add a  rainbow
       area to another image.  In fact, you can make rainbow-colored text by using pbmtext, pnmcomp, and ppmrainbow.


OPTIONS
       -width number
              The width in pixels of the output image.

              Default is 600.

       -height number
              The height in pixels of the output image.

              Default is 8.

       -tmpdir
              The directory specification of the directory ppmrainbow is to use for temporary files.

              Default is the value of the TMPDIR environment variable, or /tmp if TMPDIR is not set.

       -verbose
              Print the "commands" (invocations of other Netpbm programs) that ppmrainbow uses to create the image.


SEE ALSO
       ppmmake(1), pnmcomp(1), pbmtext(1), ppmfade(1), ppm(5).


AUTHOR
       Arjen Bax wrote ppmrainbow in June 2001 and contributed it to the Netpbm package.  Bryan Henderson wrote this
       man page in July 2001.





                                                     1 July 2001                                       ppmrainbow(1)
