ppmshadow(1)                                   General Commands Manual                                  ppmshadow(1)



NAME
       ppmshadow - add simulated shadows to a portable pixmap image

SYNOPSIS
       ppmshadow [-b blur_size] [-k] [-t] [-x xoffset] [-y yoffset] [-u] [pnmfile]



DESCRIPTION
       ppmshadow  adds  a  simulated  shadow to an image, giving the appearance that the contents of the image float
       above the page, casting a diffuse shadow on the background.  Shadows can either be black, as cast  by  opaque
       objects,  or translucent, where the shadow takes on the colour of the object which casts it.  You can specify
       the extent of the shadow and its displacement from the image with command line options.


OPTIONS
       -b blur_size

              Sets the distance of the light source from the image.  Larger values move  the  light  source  closer,
              casting  a more diffuse shadow, while smaller settings move the light further away, yielding a sharper
              shadow.  blur_size defaults to 11 pixels.


       -k     Keep the intermediate temporary image files.  When debugging, these intermediate  files  provide  many
              clues as to the source of an error.  See FILES below for a list of the contents of each file.


       -t     Consider  the  non-background  material in the image translucent -- it casts shadows of its own colour
              rather than a black shadow, which is default.  This often results in fuzzy,  difficult-to-read  images
              but in some circumstances may look better.


       -u     Print command syntax and a summary of options.


       -x xoffset
              Specifies  the  displacement of the light source to the left of the image.  Larger settings of xoffset
              displace the shadow to the right, as would be cast by a light further to the left.  If not  specified,
              the horizontal offset is half of blur_size (above), to the left.


       -y yoffset
              Specifies  the  displacement of the light source above the top of the image.  Larger settings displace
              the shadow downward, corresponding to moving the light further above the top of  the  image.   If  you
              don't specify -y, the vertical offset defaults to the same as the horizontal offset (above), upward.


FILES
       Input is an anymap named by the pnmfile command line argument; if you don't specify pnmfile, the input is the
       Standard Input file.

       Output is a always a PPM file, written to Standard Output.

       pnmfile creates a number of temporary files as it executes.  It creates them  in  the  /tmp  directory,  with
       names of the form:

       _PPMshadowpid-N.ppm

       where  pid is the process number of the ppmshadow process and N is a number identifying the file as described
       below.  In normal operation, ppmshadow deletes temporary files as soon as it is done with them and leaves  no
       debris  around after it completes.  To preserve the intermediate files for debugging, use the -k command line
       option.

       N in the filename means:

       1      Positive binary mask

       2      Convolution kernel for blurring shadow

       3      Blurred shadow image

       4      Clipped shadow image, offset as requested

       5      Blank image with background of source image

       6      Offset shadow

       7      Inverse mask file

       8      Original image times inverse mask

       9      Generated shadow times positive mask

       10     Shadow times background colour


LIMITATIONS
       The source image must contain sufficient space on the edges in the direction in which the shadow is  cast  to
       contain  the  shadow -- if it doesn't some of the internal steps may fail.  You can usually expand the border
       of a too-tightly-cropped image with pnmmargin before processing it with ppmshadow.

       Black pixels and pixels with the same color as the image background don't cast  a  shadow.   If  this  causes
       unintentional  "holes"  in  the shadow, fill the offending areas with a color which differs from black or the
       background by RGB values of 1, which will be imperceptible to the viewer.  Since the comparison is exact, the
       modified areas will now cast shadows.

       The  background color of the source image (which is preserved in the output) is deemed to be the color of the
       pixel at the top left of the input image.  If that pixel isn't part of the background, simply add a one-pixel
       border at the top of the image, generate the shadow image, then delete the border from it.

       If  something  goes  wrong along the way, the error messages from the various Netpbm programs ppmshadow calls
       will, in general, provide little or no clue as to where ppmshadow went astray.  In this case, Specify the  -k
       option  and  examine  the  intermediate  results  in the temporary files (which this option causes to be pre‐
       served).  If you manually run the commands that ppmshadow runs on these files, you can figure out  where  the
       problem  is.   In  problem cases where you want to manually tweak the image generation process along the way,
       you can keep the intermediate files with the -k option, modify them appropriately with an image editor,  then
       recombine  them  with the steps used by the code in ppmshadow.  See the ppmshadow.doc document for additional
       details and examples of the intermediate files.

       Shadows are by default black, as cast by opaque material in the image occluding  white  light.   Use  the  -t
       option  to  simulate  translucent material, where the shadow takes on the colour of the object that casts it.
       If the contrast between the image and background is  insufficient,  the  -t  option  may  yield  unattractive
       results which resemble simple blurring of the original image.

       Because  Netpbm used to have a maximum maxval of 255, which meant that the largest convolution kernel pnmcon‐
       vol could use was 11 by 11, ppmshadow includes a horrid, CPU-time-burning kludge which, if a blur of  greater
       than  11  is  requested, performs an initial convolution with an 11×11 kernel, then calls pnmsmooth (which is
       actually a script that calls pnmconvol with a 3×3 kernel) as many times as the  requested  blur  exceeds  11.
       It's ugly, but it gets the job done on those rare occasions where you need a blur greater than 11.

       If you wish to generate an image at high resolution, then scale it to publication size with pnmscale in order
       to eliminate jagged edges by resampling, it's best to generate the shadow in  the  original  high  resolution
       image, prior to scaling it down in size.  If you scale first and then add the shadow, you'll get an unsightly
       jagged stripe between the edge of material and its shadow, due to resampled pixels intermediate  between  the
       image and background obscuring the shadow.


EXIT STATUS
       ppmshadow  returns  status  0 if processing was completed without errors, and a nonzero Unix error code if an
       error prevented generation of output.  Some errors may result in  the  script  aborting,  usually  displaying
       error  messages  from  various  Netpbm components it uses, without returning a nonzero error code.  When this
       happens, the output file will be empty, so be sure to test this if you need to know if the program succeeded.


SEE ALSO
       pnm(5), pnmmargin(1), pnmconvol(1), pnmscale(1), pnmsmooth(1), ppm(5)


AUTHOR
       John Walker <http://www.fourmilab.ch> August 8, 1997

COPYRIGHT
       This software is in the public domain.  Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
       documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, without any conditions or restrictions.



                                                    12 March 2000                                       ppmshadow(1)
