PNMTOJPEG(1)                                   General Commands Manual                                  PNMTOJPEG(1)



NAME
       pnmtojpeg - convert PNM image to a JFIF ("JPEG") image


SYNOPSIS
       pnmtojpeg [ options ] [ filename ]

DESCRIPTION
       pnmtojpeg  converts  the  named  PBM, PGM, or PPM image file, or the standard input if no file is named, to a
       JFIF file on the standard output.

       pnmtojpeg uses the Independent JPEG Group's JPEG library to create the output file.   See  http://www.ijg.org
       for information on the library.

       "JFIF"  is  the  correct  name  for  the image format commonly known as "JPEG."  Strictly speaking, JPEG is a
       method of compression.  The image format using JPEG compression that is by  far  the  most  common  is  JFIF.
       There is also a subformat of TIFF that uses JPEG compression.

       EXIF  is  an image format that is a subformat of JFIF (to wit, a JFIF file that contains an EXIF header as an
       APP1 marker).  pnmtojpeg creates an EXIF image when you specify the -exif option.


OPTIONS
       The basic options are:

       --exif=filespec
              This option specifies that the output image is to be EXIF (a subformat of JFIF), i.e. it will have  an
              EXIF  header  as  a  JFIF  APP1 marker.  The contents of that marker are the contents of the specified
              file.  The special value - means to read the EXIF header contents from standard input.  It is  invalid
              to specify standard input for both the EXIF header and the input image.

              The  EXIF  file  starts  with  a  two byte field which is the length of the file, including the length
              field, in pure binary, most significant byte first.  The special value of zero for  the  length  field
              means  there  is  to be no EXIF header, i.e. the same as no -exif option.  This is useful for when you
              convert a file from JFIF to PNM using jpegtopnm, then transform it, then convert it back to JFIF  with
              pnmtojpeg,  and  you  don't know whether or not it includes an EXIF header.  jpegtopnm creates an EXIF
              file containing nothing but two bytes of zero when the input JFIF file has no EXIF header.  Thus,  you
              can  transfer any EXIF header from the input JFIF to the output JFIF without worrying about whether an
              EXIF header actually exists.

              The contents of the EXIF file after the length field are the exact byte for byte contents of the  APP1
              marker, not counting the length field, that constitutes the EXIF header.


       --quality=n
              Scale quantization tables to adjust image quality.  n is 0 (worst) to 100 (best); default is 75.  (See
              below for more info.)

       --grayscale

       --greyscale
              Create gray scale JFIF file.  With this option, pnmtojpeg converts color input to gray scale.  If  you
              don't  specify this option, The output file is in color format if the input is PPM, and grayscale for‐
              mat if the input is PBM or PGM.

              In the PPM input case, even if all the colors in the image are gray, the output is  in  color  format.
              Of  course,  the colors in it are still gray.  The difference is that color format takes up a lot more
              space and takes longer to create and process.

       --optimize
              Perform optimization of entropy encoding parameters.  Without this, pnmtojpeg  uses  default  encoding
              parameters.   --optimize  usually  makes  the  JFIF file a little smaller, but pnmtojpeg runs somewhat
              slower and needs much more memory.  Image quality and speed of decompression are unaffected by --opti‐
              mize.

       --progressive
              Create a progressive JPEG file (see below).

       --comment=text
              Include  a  comment marker in the JFIF output, with comment text text.  Without this option, there are
              no comment markers in the output.


       The --quality option lets you trade off compressed file size against quality of the reconstructed image:  the
       higher the quality setting, the larger the JFIF file, and the closer the output image will be to the original
       input.  Normally you want to use the lowest quality setting (smallest file) that decompresses into  something
       visually  indistinguishable  from the original image.  For this purpose the quality setting should be between
       50 and 95; the default of 75 is often about right.  If you see defects at --quality=75, then go up  5  or  10
       counts at a time until you are happy with the output image.  (The optimal setting will vary from one image to
       another.)

       --quality=100 generates a quantization table of all 1's, minimizing loss in the quantization step (but  there
       is still information loss in subsampling, as well as roundoff error).  This setting is mainly of interest for
       experimental purposes.  Quality values above about 95 are not recommended for normal use; the compressed file
       size goes up dramatically for hardly any gain in output image quality.

       In the other direction, quality values below 50 will produce very small files of low image quality.  Settings
       around 5 to 10 might be useful in preparing an index of a large image library, for example.  Try  --quality=2
       (or  so)  for some amusing Cubist effects.  (Note: quality values below about 25 generate 2-byte quantization
       tables, which are considered optional in the JFIF standard.  pnmtojpeg emits a warning message when you  give
       such  a  quality  value,  because  some  other JFIF programs may be unable to decode the resulting file.  Use
       --baseline if you need to ensure compatibility at low quality values.)

       The --progressive option creates a "progressive JPEG" file.  In this type of JFIF file, the data is stored in
       multiple  scans of increasing quality.  If the file is being transmitted over a slow communications link, the
       decoder can use the first scan to display a low-quality image very quickly, and can then improve the  display
       with each subsequent scan.  The final image is exactly equivalent to a standard JFIF file of the same quality
       setting, and the total file size is about the same -- often a little smaller.  Caution: progressive  JPEG  is
       not yet widely implemented, so many decoders will be unable to view a progressive JPEG file at all.

       Options for advanced users:

       --dct=int
              Use integer DCT method (default).

       --dct=fast
              Use fast integer DCT (less accurate).

       --dct=float
              Use  floating-point  DCT method.  The float method is very slightly more accurate than the int method,
              but is much slower unless your machine has very fast floating-point hardware.  Also note that  results
              of  the floating-point method may vary slightly across machines, while the integer methods should give
              the same results everywhere.  The fast integer method is much less accurate than the other two.

       --restart=n
              Emit a JPEG restart marker every n MCU rows, or every n MCU blocks if you  append  B  to  the  number.
              --restart 0 (the default) means no restart markers.

       --smooth=n
              Smooth the input image to eliminate dithering noise.  n, ranging from 1 to 100, indicates the strength
              of smoothing.  0 (the default) means no smoothing.

       --maxmemory=n
              Set a limit for amount of memory to use in processing large images.  Value is in thousands  of  bytes,
              or  millions  of  bytes if you append M to the number.  For example, --max=4m selects 4,000,000 bytes.
              If pnmtojpeg needs more space, it will use temporary files.

       --verbose
              Print to the Standard Error file messages about the conversion process.  This can be helpful in debug‐
              ging problems.

       The --restart option tells pnmtojpeg to insert extra markers that allow a JPEG decoder to resynchronize after
       a transmission error.  Without restart markers, any damage to a compressed file will usually ruin  the  image
       from  the point of the error to the end of the image; with restart markers, the damage is usually confined to
       the portion of the image up to the next restart marker.  Of course, the restart markers occupy  extra  space.
       We recommend --restart=1 for images that will be transmitted across unreliable networks such as Usenet.

       The  --smooth  option  filters the input to eliminate fine-scale noise.  This is often useful when converting
       dithered images to JFIF:  a moderate smoothing factor of 10 to 50 gets rid of dithering patterns in the input
       file, resulting in a smaller JFIF file and a better-looking image.  Too large a smoothing factor will visibly
       blur the image, however.

       Options for wizards:

       --baseline
              Force baseline-compatible quantization tables to be generated.  This clamps quantization values  to  8
              bits  even  at  low quality settings.  (This switch is poorly named, since it does not ensure that the
              output is actually baseline JPEG.  For example, you can use --baseline and --progressive together.)

       --qtables=filespec
              Use the quantization tables given in the specified text file.

       --qslots=n[,...]
              Select which quantization table to use for each color component.

       --sample=HxV[,...]
              Set JPEG sampling factors for each color component.

       --scans=filespec
              Use the scan script given in the specified text file.  See below for information on scan scripts.

       The "wizard" options are intended for experimentation with JPEG.  If you don't know what you are doing, don't
       use  them.  These switches are documented further in the file wizard.doc that comes with the Independent JPEG
       Group's JPEG library.

EXAMPLES
       This example compresses the PPM file foo.ppm with a quality factor of 60 and saves the output as foo.jpg:

              pnmtojpeg --quality=60 foo.ppm > foo.jpg

              cat foo.bmp | bmptoppm | pnmtojpeg > foo.jpg


HINTS
       JFIF is not ideal for cartoons, line drawings, and other images that have only a few  distinct  colors.   For
       those,  try  instead  pnmtopng or ppmtobmp.  If you need to convert such an image to JFIF, though, you should
       experiment with pnmtojpeg's --quality and --smooth options to get a satisfactory conversion.  --smooth 10  or
       so is often helpful.

       JPEG compression is notable for being a "lossy."  This means that, unlike with most graphics conversions, you
       lose information, which means image quality, when you convert to JFIF.  If you convert from PPM to  JFIF  and
       back  repeatedly,  image  quality  loss  will accumulate.  After ten or so cycles the image may be noticeably
       worse than it was after one cycle.

       Because of this, you should do all the manipulation you have to do on the image in some other format and con‐
       vert  to  JFIF as the last step.  And if you can keep a copy in the original format, so much the better.  PNG
       is a good choice for a format that is lossless, yet fairly compact.  GIF is another way to  go,  but  chances
       are  you  can't  create a GIF image without owing a lot of money to Unisys and IBM, holders of patents on the
       LZW compression used in the GIF format.

       The --optimize option to pnmtojpeg is worth using when you are making a "final" version for  posting  or  ar‐
       chiving.  It's also a win when you are using low quality settings to make very small JFIF files; the percent‐
       age improvement is often a lot more than it is on larger files.  (At present, --optimize  mode  is  automati‐
       cally in effect when you generate a progressive JPEG file).

       Another  program, cjpeg, is similar.  cjpeg is maintained by the Independent JPEG Group and packaged with the
       JPEG library which pnmtojpeg uses for all its JPEG work.  Because of that, you may expect it to exploit  more
       current  JPEG features.  Also, since you have to have the library to run pnmtojpeg, but not vice versa, cjpeg
       may be more commonly available.

       On the other hand, cjpeg does not use the NetPBM libraries to process its input, as all the NetPBM tools such
       as  pnmtojpeg  do.   This means it is less likely to be consistent with all the other programs that deal with
       the NetPBM formats.  Also, the command syntax of pnmtojpeg is consistent with that of the other Netpbm tools,
       unlike cjpeg.


SCAN SCRIPTS
       Use the -scan option to specify a scan script.  Or use the -progressive option to specify a particular built-
       in scan script.

       Just what a scan script is, and the basic format of the scan script file, is covered in the  wizard.doc  file
       that  comes  with  the Independent JPEG Group's JPEG library.  Scan scripts are same for pnmtojpeg as the are
       for cjpeg.

       This section contains additional information that isn't, but probably should be, in that document.

       First, there are many restrictions on what is a valid scan script.  The JPEG  library,  and  thus  pnmtojpeg,
       checks  thoroughly  for  any  lack of compliance with these restrictions, but does little to tell you how the
       script fails to comply.  The messages are very general and sometimes untrue.

       To start with, the entries for the DC coefficient must come before any entries for the AC coefficients.   The
       DC  coefficient  is Coefficient 0; all the other coefficients are AC coefficients.  So in an entry for the DC
       coefficient, the two numbers after the colon must be 0 and 0.  In an entry for  AC  coefficients,  the  first
       number after the colon must not be 0.

       In a DC entry, the color components must be in increasing order.  E.g. "0,2,1" before the colon is wrong.  So
       is "0,0,0".

       In an entry for an AC coeffient, you must specify only one color component.  I.e. there can be only one  num‐
       ber before the colon.

       In  the  first  entry  for  a particular coefficient for a particular color component, the "Ah" value must be
       zero, but the Al value can be any valid bit number.  In subsequent entries, Ah must be the Al value from  the
       previous entry (for that coefficient for that color component), and the Al value must be one less than the Ah
       value.

       The script must ultimately specify at least some of the DC coefficent for every color component.   Otherwise,
       you  get  the error message "Script does not transmit all the data."  You need not specify all of the bits of
       the DC coefficient, or any of the AC coefficients.

       There is a standard option in building the JPEG library to omit scan script capability.  If for  some  reason
       your library was built with this option, you get the message "Requested feature was omitted at compile time."


ENVIRONMENT
       JPEGMEM
              If this environment variable is set, its value is the default memory limit.  The value is specified as
              described for the --maxmemory option.  An explicit --maxmemory option overrides any JPEGMEM.


SEE ALSO
       cjpeg(1), djpeg(1), jpegtran(1), rdjpgcom(1), wrjpgcom(1)
       ppm(5), pgm(5), jpegtopnm(1)
       Wallace, Gregory K.  "The JPEG Still Picture Compression Standard", Communications of  the  ACM,  April  1991
       (vol. 34, no. 4), pp. 30-44.

LIMITATIONS
       Arithmetic coding is not supported for legal reasons.

       The program could be much faster.


AUTHOR
       pnmtojpeg  and  this man page were derived in large part from cjpeg, by the Independent JPEG Group.  The pro‐
       gram is otherwise by Bryan Henderson on March 07, 2000.







                                                    07 March 2000                                       PNMTOJPEG(1)
