ppmtoicr(1)                                    General Commands Manual                                   ppmtoicr(1)



NAME
       ppmtoicr - convert a portable pixmap into NCSA ICR format

SYNOPSIS
       ppmtoicr [-windowname name] [-expand expand] [-display display] [-rle] [ppmfile]

DESCRIPTION
       Reads a portable pixmap file as input.  Produces an NCSA Telnet Interactive Color Raster graphic file as out‐
       put.  If ppmfile is not supplied, ppmtoicr will read from standard input.

       Interactive Color Raster (ICR) is a protocol for displaying raster graphics on workstation screens. The  pro‐
       tocol  is  implemented in NCSA Telnet for the Macintosh version 2.3.  The ICR protocol shares characteristics
       of the Tektronix graphics terminal emulation protocol.  For example, escape sequences are used to control the
       display.

       ppmtoicr will output the appropriate sequences to create a window of the dimensions of the input pixmap, cre‐
       ate a colormap of up to 256 colors on the display, then load the picture data into the window.

       Note that there is no icrtoppm tool - this transformation is one way.

OPTIONS
       -windownamename
                     Output will be displayed in name (Default is to use ppmfile or "untitled" if standard input  is
                     read.)

       -expandexpand Output  will be expanded on display by factor expand (For example, a value of 2 will cause four
                     pixels to be displayed for every input pixel.)

       -displaydisplay
                     Output will be displayed on screen numbered display

       -rle          Use run-length encoded format for display. (This will nearly always result in  a  quicker  dis‐
                     play, but may skew the colormap.)

EXAMPLES
       To display a ppm file using the protocol:
           ppmtoicr ppmfile
       This  will  create  a window named ppmfile on the display with the correct dimensions for ppmfile, create and
       download a colormap of up to 256 colors, and download the picture into the window. The  same  effect  may  be
       achieved by the following sequence:
           ppmtoicr ppmfile > filename
           cat filename
       To display a GIF file using the protocol in a window titled after the input file, zoom the displayed image by
       a factor of 2, and run-length encode the data:
           giftopnm giffile | ppmtoicr -w giffile -r -e 2

BUGS
       The protocol uses frequent fflush calls to speed up display. If the output is saved to a file for later  dis‐
       play via cat, drawing will be much slower. In either case, increasing the Blocksize limit on the display will
       speed up transmission substantially.

SEE ALSO
       ppm(5)

       NCSA Telnet for the Macintosh, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (1989)

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1990 by Kanthan Pillay (svpillay@Princeton.EDU), Princeton University Computing and Information
       Technology.



                                                    30 July 1990                                         ppmtoicr(1)
