ppmtosixel(1)                                  General Commands Manual                                 ppmtosixel(1)



NAME
       ppmtosixel - convert a portable pixmap into DEC sixel format

SYNOPSIS
       ppmtosixel [-raw] [-margin] [ppmfile]

DESCRIPTION
       Reads  a  portable  pixmap  as  input.  Produces sixel commands (SIX) as output.  The output is formatted for
       color printing, e.g. for a DEC LJ250 color inkjet printer.

       If RGB values from the PPM file do not have maxval=100, the RGB  values  are  rescaled.   A  printer  control
       header  and  a  color  assignment  table begin the SIX file.  Image data is written in a compressed format by
       default.  A printer control footer ends the image file.

OPTIONS
       -raw   If specified, each pixel will be explicitly described in the image file.  If -raw  is  not  specified,
              output  will  default  to compressed format in which identical adjacent pixels are replaced by "repeat
              pixel" commands.  A raw file is often an order of magnitude larger than a compressed file  and  prints
              much slower.

       -margin
              If  -margin  is  not  specified,  the image will be start at the left margin (of the window, paper, or
              whatever).  If -margin is specified, a 1.5 inch left margin will offset the image.

PRINTING
       Generally, sixel files must reach the  printer  unfiltered.   Use  the  lpr  -x  option  or  cat  filename  >
       /dev/tty0?.

BUGS
       Upon  rescaling,  truncation of the least significant bits of RGB values may result in poor color conversion.
       If the original PPM maxval was greater than 100, rescaling also reduces the image depth.   While  the  actual
       RGB values from the ppm file are more or less retained, the color palette of the LJ250 may not match the col‐
       ors on your screen.  This seems to be a printer limitation.

SEE ALSO
       ppm(5)

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1991 by Rick Vinci.



                                                    26 April 1991                                      ppmtosixel(1)
