ppmtowinicon(1)                                General Commands Manual                               ppmtowinicon(1)



NAME
       ppmtowinicon - convert 1 or more portable pixmaps into a Windows .ico file


SYNOPSIS
       ppmtowinicon [-andpgms] [-output output.ico] [ppmfiles...]


DESCRIPTION
       Reads one or more portable pixmaps as input.  Produces a Microsoft Windows .ico file as output.

       A Windows icon contains 1 or more images, at different resolutions and color depths.

       Microsoft recommends including at least the following formats in each icon (size and bits-per-pixel):

       16 x 16 - 4 bpp

       32 x 32 - 4 bpp

       48 x 48 - 8 bpp

       Default I/O is STDIN/STDOUT.

OPTIONS
       -andpgms
              If  this  option is given, every second file is read as an "and mask" to be used by windows for trans‐
              parency data for the previous image. (These are set to fully opaque by default). The and mask is a PGM
              image,  where  any pixel with maxval intensity means opaque and any other pixel means not opaque. Note
              that as with all Netpbm programs, you may use a PBM file here and it will be used as if  it  were  the
              equivalent PGM.

              The  and  mask  is  like an alpha mask, except for what it signifies in the "not opaque" areas. In the
              usual case, the foreground image is black in those areas, and in that case the areas are fully  trans‐
              parent -- the background shows through the icon. But in general, a not opaque pixel signifies that the
              background and foreground should be merged as follows: The intensities of the color components in  the
              forgeground  and  background  are  represented as binary numbers, then corresponding bits of the back‐
              ground and foreground intensities are exlusive-or'ed together. So there is a  sort  of  reverse  video
              effect.


       -output output.ico
              File to write.  By default, the icon is written to stdout.


SEE ALSO
       winicontoppm(1), ppm(5)


AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 2000 by Lee Benfield.



                                                     22 May 2000                                     ppmtowinicon(1)
