ppmtoacad(1)                                   General Commands Manual                                  ppmtoacad(1)



NAME
       ppmtoacad - convert portable pixmap to AutoCAD database or slide

SYNOPSIS
       ppmtoacad [-dxb] [-poly] [-background colour] [-white] [-aspect ratio] [-8] [ppmfile]

DESCRIPTION
       Reads  a  portable pixmap as input.  Produces an AutoCAD® slide file or binary database import (.dxb) file as
       output.  If no ppmfile is specified, input is read from standard input.

OPTIONS
       -dxb   An AutoCAD binary database import (.dxb) file is written.  This file is read with  the  DXBIN  command
              and,  once  loaded, becomes part of the AutoCAD geometrical database and can be viewed and edited like
              any other object.  Each sequence of identical pixels becomes a separate object in the  database;  this
              can  result in very large AutoCAD drawing files.  However, if you want to trace over a bitmap, it lets
              you zoom and pan around the bitmap as you wish.

       -poly  If the -dxb option is not specified, the output of ppmtoacad is an AutoCAD slide file.  Normally  each
              row of pixels is represented by an AutoCAD line entity.  If -poly is selected, the pixels are rendered
              as filled polygons.  If the slide is viewed on a  display  with  higher  resolution  than  the  source
              pixmap, this will cause the pixels to expand instead of appearing as discrete lines against the screen
              background colour.  Regrettably, this representation yields slide files which occupy more  disc  space
              and take longer to display.

       -background colour
              Most  AutoCAD  display drivers can be configured to use any available colour as the screen background.
              Some users perfer a black screen background, others white, while splinter groups advocate burnt ocher,
              tawny puce, and shocking grey.  Discarding pixels whose closest AutoCAD colour representation is equal
              to the background colour can substantially reduce the size of  the  AutoCAD  database  or  slide  file
              needed  to represent a bitmap.  If no -background colour is specified, the screen background colour is
              assumed to be black.  Any AutoCAD colour number may be specified as the screen background; colour num‐
              bers are assumed to specify the hues defined in the standard AutoCAD 256 colour palette.

       -white Since  many  AutoCAD  users  choose a white screen background, this option is provided as a short-cut.
              Specifying -white is identical in effect to -background 7.

       -aspect ratio
              If the source pixmap had non-square pixels, the ratio of the pixel width to  pixel  height  should  be
              specified  as ratio.  The resulting slide or .dxb file will be corrected so that pixels on the AutoCAD
              screen will be square.  For example, to correct an image made for a 320x200 VGA/MCGA  screen,  specify
              -aspect 0.8333.

       -8     Restricts the colours in the output file to the 8 RGB shades.

       All flags can be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.

BUGS
       AutoCAD  has  a  fixed  palette  of  256  colours, distributed along the hue, lightness, and saturation axes.
       Pixmaps which contain many nearly-identical colours, or colours not closely approximated  by  AutoCAD's  pal‐
       ette, may be poorly rendered.

       ppmtoacad works best if the system displaying its output supports the full 256 colour AutoCAD palette.  Mono‐
       chrome, 8 colour, and 16 colour configurations will produce less than optimal results.

       When creating a .dxb file or a slide file with the -poly option, ppmtoacad finds both vertical and horizontal
       runs  of  identical  pixels  and  consolidates them into rectangular regions to reduce the size of the output
       file.  This is effective for images with large areas of constant colour  but  it's  no  substitute  for  true
       raster to vector conversion.  In particular, thin diagonal lines are not optimised at all by this process.

       Output files can be huge.

SEE ALSO
       AutoCAD Reference Manual: Slide File Format and Binary Drawing Interchange (DXB) Files, ppm(5)

AUTHOR
            John Walker
            Autodesk SA
            Avenue des Champs-Montants 14b
            CH-2074 MARIN
            Suisse/Schweiz/Svizzera/Svizra/Switzerland
            Usenet:  kelvin@Autodesk.com
            Fax:     038/33 88 15
            Voice:   038/33 76 33

       Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and with‐
       out fee is hereby granted, without any conditions or restrictions.  This software is provided ``as is'' with‐
       out express or implied warranty.

       AutoCAD and Autodesk are registered trademarks of Autodesk, Inc.



                                                   10 October 1991                                      ppmtoacad(1)
