ppmtogif(1)                                    General Commands Manual                                   ppmtogif(1)



NAME
       ppmtogif - convert a portable pixmap into a GIF file

SYNOPSIS
       ppmtogif [-interlace] [-sort] [-map mapfile]
       [-transparent [=]color] [-alpha pgmfile] [-comment text] [-nolzw]
       [ppmfile]

       All  options  can  be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.  You may use two hyphens instead of one to
       designate an option.  You may use either white space or equals signs between an option name and its value.


DESCRIPTION
       Reads a portable pixmap as input.  Produces a GIF file as output.

       This program creates only individual GIF images.  To combine multiple GIF images into an  animated  GIF,  use
       gifsicle (not part of the Netpbm package).

       ppmtogif  creates  either an original GIF87 format GIF file or the newer GIF89 format.  It creates GIF89 when
       you request features that were new with GIF89, to wit the -transparent or -comment  options.   Otherwise,  it
       creates GIF87.  Really old GIF readers conceivably could not recognize GIF89.


OPTIONS
       -interlace
              Produce an interlaced GIF file.

       -sort  Produces a GIF file with a sorted color map.

       -map   mapfile

              Uses  the  colors  found  in the mapfile to create the colormap in the GIF file, instead of the colors
              from ppmfile.  The mapfile can be any ppm file; all that matters is the colors in it. If the colors in
              ppmfile do not match those in mapfile , they are matched to a "best match." A (much) better result can
              be obtained by using the following filter in advance:

              ppmquant -floyd -map mapfile

       -transparent color
              ppmtogif marks the specified color as transparent in the GIF image.

              If you don't specify -transparent, ppmtogif does not mark any color transparent (except  as  indicated
              by the -alpha option).

              You  specify  the  color  as in ppmmake(1).E.g.  red or rgb:ff/00/0d.  If the color you specify is not
              present in the image, ppmtogif selects instead the color in the image that is closest to the  one  you
              specify.  Closeness is measured as a cartesian distance between colors in RGB space.  If multiple col‐
              ors are equidistant, ppmtogif chooses one of them arbitrarily.

              However, if you prefix your color specification with "=", e.g.

              -transparent==red

              Only the exact color you specify will be transparent.  If that color does not  appear  in  the  image,
              there will be no transparency.  ppmtogif issues an information message when this is the case.

              You cannot specify both -transparent and -alpha.


       -alpha= pgmfile
              This option names a PGM file that contains an alpha mask for the image.  ppmtogif Creates fully trans‐
              parent pixels wherever the alpha mask indicates transparency greater than 50%.   The  color  of  those
              pixels is that specified by the -alphacolor option, or black by default.

              To  do  this, ppmtogif creates an entry in the GIF colormap in addition to the entries for colors that
              are actually in the image.  It marks that colormap entry as transparent and uses that  colormap  index
              in the output image to create a transparent pixel.

              The  alpha image must be the same dimensions as the input image, but may have any maxval.  White means
              opaque and black means transparent.

              You cannot specify both -transparent and -alpha.


       -alphacolor
              See -alpha.


       -comment text
              Include a comment in the GIF output with comment text text.  Without this option, there  are  no  com‐
              ments in the output.


       -nolzw This  option  causes the GIF output, and thus ppmtogif, not to use LZW (Lempel-Ziv) compression.  As a
              result, the image file is larger and no royalties are owed to the holder of the patent  on  LZW.   See
              the section LICENSE below.

              LZW  is  a method for combining the information from multiple pixels into a single GIF code.  With the
              -nolzw option, ppmtogif creates one GIF code per pixel, so it is not doing  any  compression  and  not
              using  LZW.   However,  any  GIF  decoder,  whether it uses an LZW decompressor or not, will correctly
              decode this uncompressed format.  An LZW decompressor would see this as a particular case of LZW  com‐
              pression.

              Note  that if someone uses an LZW decompressor such as the one in ppmtogif or pretty much any graphics
              display program to process the output of ppmtogif -nolzw he is then using the  LZW  patent.   But  the
              patent holder has expressed far less interest in enforcing the patent on decoding than on encoding.


SEE ALSO
       giftopnm(1), ppmquant(1), pngtopnm(1), gifsicle(1) <http://www.lcdf.org/gifsicle>, ppm(5).

AUTHOR
       Based on GIFENCOD by David Rowley <mgardi@watdcsu.waterloo.edu>.  Lempel-Ziv compression based on "compress".

       The non-LZW format is generated by code based on djpeg by the Independent Jpeg Group.

       Copyright (C) 1989 by Jef Poskanzer.


LICENSE
       If  you use ppmtogif without the -nolzw option, you are using a patent on the LZW compression method which is
       owned by Unisys, and in all probability you do not have a license from Unisys to  do  so.   Unisys  typically
       asks $5000 for a license for trivial use of the patent.  Unisys has never enforced the patent against trivial
       users.  The patent expires in 2003.

       Rumor has it that IBM also owns a patent covering ppmtogif.

       A replacement for the GIF format that does not require any patents to use is the PNG format.




                                                     20 May 2000                                         ppmtogif(1)
