PREZIP-BIN(1)                             Aspell Abbreviated User's Manual                             PREZIP-BIN(1)



NAME
       prezip-bin - prefix zip delta word list compressor/decompressor

SYNOPSIS
       prezip-bin [ -V | -d | -z ]

DESCRIPTION
       prezip-bin compresses/decompresses sorted word lists from standard input to standard output.

       Prezip-bin  is  similar  to word-list-compress(1) but it allows a larger character set of {0x00...0x09, 0x0B,
       0x0C,  0x0E...0xFF}  and  multi-words  larger  than  255  characters  in  length.   It  can  also  decompress
       word-list-compress(1) compatible files.

COMMANDS
       Prezip-bin accepts only one of these commands.

       -V     Display prezip-bin version number to standard output.

       -d     Read  a  compressed word list from standard input and decompress it to standard output.  This can be a
              word-list-compress(1) or a prezip-bin compressed file.

       -z     Read a binary word list from standard input and compress it to standard output.

EXAMPLES
       prezip-bin -d <wordlist.cwl >wordlist.txt
              Decompress file wordlist.cwl to text file wordlist.txt

       prezip-bin -z <wordlist.txt >wordlist.pz 2>errors.txt
              Compress wordlist.txt to binary file wordlist.pz and send any error messages  to  a  text  file  named
              errors.txt

       LC_COLLATE=C sort -u <wordlist.txt | prezip-bin -z >wordlist.pz
              Sort a word list, then pipe it to prezip-bin to create a compressed binary wordlist.pz file.

       prezip-bin -d <words.pz | aspell create master ./words.rws
              Decompress  a  wordlist,  then  pipe  it  to  aspell(1)  to  create a spelling list.  Please check the
              aspell(1) info manual for proper usage and options.

TIPS
       Prezip-bin is best used with sorted word list type files.  It is not a general  purpose  compression  program
       since resulting files may actually increase in size.

       Unlike  word-list-compress(1) if your word list has leading or trailing blank spaces for formatting purposes,
       you should remove them first before you compress your list using prezip-bin -z , otherwise those spaces  will
       be included in the compressed binary output.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Prezip-bin  normally  exits with a return code of 0. If it encounters an error, a message is sent to standard
       error output (stderr), and prezip-bin exits with a non-zero return value.  Error messages are listed below:

       (display help/usage message)
              Unknown command given on the command line so prezip-bin displays a usage  message  to  standard  error
              output.

       unknown format
              The  input  file appears not to be an expected format, or may possibly be a more advanced format.  The
              output file will be empty.

       corrupt input
              This is only for the decompression command -d. The input file appeared to be of a correct format,  but
              something appears wrong now.  There may be some valid data in output, but due to input corruption, the
              rest of the file can not be completed.

       unexpected EOF
              The input file appeared okay but ended sooner than expected, therefore the output  file  is  not  com‐
              plete.

SEE ALSO
       aspell(1), aspell-import(1), run-with-aspell(1), word-list-compress(1)

       Aspell  is fully documented in its Texinfo manual.  See the `aspell' entry in info for more complete documen‐
       tation.

REPORTING BUGS
       For help, see the Aspell homepage at <http://aspell.net>.  Send bug reports/comments to the Aspell user  list
       at the above address.

AUTHOR
       This info page was written by Jose Da Silva <digital@joescat.com>.



prezip-bin-0.1.2                                     2005-09-30                                        PREZIP-BIN(1)
