PSSELECT(1)                                    General Commands Manual                                   PSSELECT(1)



NAME
       psselect - select pages from a PostScript file

SYNOPSIS
       psselect [ -q ] [ -e ] [ -o ] [ -r ] [ -ppages ] [ pages ] [ infile [ outfile ] ]

DESCRIPTION
       Psselect  selects pages from a PostScript document, creating a new PostScript file. The input PostScript file
       should follow the Adobe Document Structuring Conventions.

       The -e option selects all of the even pages; it may be used in conjunction  with  the  other  page  selection
       options to select the even pages from a range of pages.

       The  -o  option  selects  all  of  the odd pages; it may be used in conjunction with the other page selection
       options.

       The -ppages option specifies the pages which are to be selected.  Pages is a comma  separated  list  of  page
       ranges,  each of which may be a page number, or a page range of the form first-last. If first is omitted, the
       first page is assumed, and if last is omitted, the last page is assumed.

       The prefix character `_' indicates that the page number is relative to the  end  of  the  document,  counting
       backwards. If just this character with no page number is used, a blank page will be inserted.

       The -r option causes psselect to output the selected pages in reverse order.

       Psselect normally prints the page numbers of the pages rearranged; the -q option suppresses this.

       If  any  of the -r, -e, or -o options are specified, the page range must be given with the -p option. This is
       for backwards compatibility with previous versions.


NOTES
       The page number given to psselect is the number of the page counting from the  start  or  end  of  the  file,
       starting at one. The actual page number in the document may be different.

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) Angus J. C. Duggan 1991-1995

SEE ALSO
       psbook(1),  psselect(1), pstops(1), epsffit(1), psnup(1), psresize(1), psmerge(1), fixscribeps(1), getafm(1),
       fixdlsrps(1),  fixfmps(1),  fixpsditps(1),  fixpspps(1),  fixtpps(1),  fixwfwps(1),  fixwpps(1),  fixwwps(1),
       extractres(1), includeres(1), showchar(1)

TRADEMARKS
       PostScript is a trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated.

BUGS
       Psselect does not accept all DSC comments.



                                           PSUtils Release 1 Patchlevel 17                               PSSELECT(1)
