pstopnm(1)                                     General Commands Manual                                    pstopnm(1)



NAME
       pstopnm - convert a PostScript file into a portable anymap

SYNOPSIS
       pstopnm  [-stdout]  [-forceplain]  [-help]  [-llx  s] [-lly s] [-landscape] [-portrait] [-nocrop] [-pbm |-pgm
       |-ppm] [-urx s] [-ury s] [-verbose] [-xborder n] [-xmax n] [-xsize f]  [-yborder  f]  [-ymax  n]  [-ysize  n]
       psfile[.ps]

DESCRIPTION
       Reads  a  PostScript  file  as  input.   Produces PBM, PGM, or PPM files as output.  This program simply uses
       GhostScript to render a PostScript file with its PNM device drivers.  If you don't have GhostScript installed
       (invoked by a gs command), or the version you have installed was not built with the relevant PNM device driv‐
       ers, pstopnm will fail.  You can see if you have the proper environment by issuing the command  gs  --help  .
       If  it  responds  and  lists under "Available Devices" pbm, pbmraw, pgm, pgmraw, pnm, pnmraw, ppm, or ppmraw,
       you're in business.

       pstopnm does not use the Netpbm libraries to generate the output files, so may  not  be  entirely  consistent
       with most Netpbm programs.

       psfile[.ps] is the name of the input file.  .pstopnm will add the ps to the end of the name you specify if no
       file exists by the exact name you specify, but one with added does.  Use - to indicate Standard Input.

       If you use the -stdout option, pstopnm outputs images of all the pages as a multi-image file to Standard Out‐
       put.   Otherwise,  pstopnm creates one file for each page in the Postscript document.  The files are named as
       follows: If the input file is named psfile.ps, the name of the files will  be  psfile001.ppm,  psfile002.ppm,
       etc.   The  filetype  suffix  is  .ppm, .pgm, or .pbm, depending on which kind of output you choose with your
       invocation options.  If the input file name does not end in .ps, the whole file name is used  in  the  output
       file  name.   For  example, if the input file is named psfile.old, the output file name is psfile.old001.ppm,
       etc.

       Note that the output file selection is inconsistent with most Netpbm programs, because it does not default to
       Standard  Output.   This  is for historical reasons, based on the fact that the Netpbm formats did not always
       provide for a sequence of images in a single file.


       Each output file contains the image of a rectangular part of the page to which  it  pertains.   The  selected
       area  will  always  be  centered  in  the  output file, and may have borders around it.  The image area to be
       extracted from the PostScript file and rendered into a portable anymap is defined by four numbers, the  lower
       left  corner  and the upper right corner x and y coordinates.  These coordinates are usually specified by the
       BoundingBox comment in the PostScript file header, but they can be overridden by the user by  specifying  one
       or  more  of the following options: -llx, -lly, -urx, and -ury.  The presence and thickness of a border to be
       left around the image area is controlled by the use of the options -xborder and -yborder.   If  pstopnm  does
       not  find  BoundingBox  parameters  in the input, and you don't specify image area coordinates on the command
       line, pstopnm uses default values.  If your input is from Standard Input, pstopnm does not use the  Bounding‐
       Box  parameters (due to the technical difficulty of extracting that information and still feeding the file to
       Ghostscript), so you either have to specify the image area coordinates or take the default.

       Unless you specify both output file width and height, via the -xsize and -ysize  options,  pstopnm  maps  the
       document into the output image by preserving its aspect ratio.

       It has been reported that on some Postscript Version 1 input, Ghostscript, and therefore pstopnm, produces no
       output.  To solve this problem, you can convert the file to Postscript Version 3 with the program ps2ps.   It
       is reported that the program pstops does not work.


OPTIONS
       -forceplain
              forces  the  output  file to be in plain (text) format.  Otherwise, it is in raw (binary) format.  See
              pbm(1), etc.

       -llx bx
              selects bx as the lower left corner x coordinate (in inches).

       -lly by
              selects by as the lower left corner y coordinate (in inches).

       -landscape
              renders the image in landscape mode.

       -portrait
              renders the image in portrait mode.

       -nocrop
              does not crop the output image dimensions to match the PostScript image area dimensions.

       -pbm -pgm -ppm
              selects the format of the output file.  By default, all files are rendered as  portable  pixmaps  (ppm
              format).

       -stdout
              causes  output  to go to Standard Output instead of to regular files, one per page (see description of
              output files above).  Use pnmsplit to extract individual pages from Standard Output.

       -urx tx
              selects tx as the upper right corner x coordinate (in inches).

       -ury ty
              selects ty as the upper right corner y coordinate (in inches).

       -verbose
              prints processing information to stdout.

       -xborder frac
              specifies that the border width along the Y axis should be frac times the document width as  specified
              by the bounding box comment in the PostScript file header.  The default value is 0.1.

       -xmax xs
              specifies  that the maximum output image width should have a size less or equal to xs pixels (default:
              612).

       -xsize xsize
              specifies that the output image width must be exactly xs pixels.

       -yborder frac
              specifies that the border width along the X axis should be frac times the document width as  specified
              by the bounding box comment in the PostScript file header.  The default value is 0.1.

       -ymax ys
              specifies that the maximum output image height should have a size less or equal to ys pixels (default:
              792).

       -ysize ys
              specifies that the output image height must be exactly ys pixels.


BUGS
       The program will produce incorrect results with PostScript files that initialize the  current  transformation
       matrix.   In  these  cases,  page  translation and rotation will not have any effect.  To render these files,
       probably the best bet is to use the following options:

          pstopnm -xborder 0 -yborder 0 -portrait -nocrop file.ps

       Additional options may be needed if the document is supposed to be rendered on a medium different  from  let‐
       ter-size paper.

SEE ALSO
       gs(1), pstofits(1), pnmtops(1), psidtopgm(1), pbmtolps(1), pbmtoepsi(1), pnmsplit(1)


COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 1992 Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
       PostScript is a Trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated.

AUTHOR
       Alberto Accomazzi, WIPL, Center for Astrophysics.




                                                    28 June 2000                                          pstopnm(1)
