pulseaudio(1)                                  General Commands Manual                                 pulseaudio(1)



NAME
       pulseaudio - The PulseAudio Sound System

SYNOPSIS
       pulseaudio [options]

       pulseaudio --help

       pulseaudio --version

       pulseaudio --dump-conf

       pulseaudio --dump-modules

       pulseaudio --dump-resample-methods

       pulseaudio --cleanup-shm

       pulseaudio --start

       pulseaudio --kill

       pulseaudio --check

DESCRIPTION
       PulseAudio is a networked low-latency sound server for Linux, POSIX and Windows systems.

OPTIONS
       -h | --help
              Show help.

       --version
              Show version information.

       --dump-conf
              Load  the  daemon configuration file daemon.conf (see below), parse remaining configuration options on
              the command line and dump the resulting daemon configuration, in a format that is compatible with dae‐
              mon.conf.

       --dump-modules
              List available loadable modules. Combine with -v for a more elaborate listing.

       --dump-resample-methods
              List available audio resamplers.

       --cleanup-shm
              Identify  stale  PulseAudio POSIX shared memory segments in /dev/shm and remove them if possible. This
              is done implicitly whenever a new daemon starts up or a client tries to connect to a daemon. It should
              normally  not  be necessary to issue this command by hand. Only available on systems with POSIX shared
              memory segments implemented via a virtual file system mounted to /dev/shm (e.g. Linux).

       --start
              Start PulseAudio if it is not running yet. This is different from starting PulseAudio without  --start
              which  would fail if PA is already running. PulseAudio is guaranteed to be fully initialized when this
              call returns. Implies --daemon.

       -k | --kill
              Kill an already running PulseAudio daemon of the calling user (Equivalent to sending a SIGTERM).

       --check
              Return 0 as return code when the PulseAudio daemon is already running for the calling  user,  or  non-
              zero otherwise. Produces no output on the console except for errors to stderr.

       --system[=BOOL]
              Run  as  system-wide  instance instead of per-user. Please note that this disables certain features of
              PulseAudio and is generally not recommended unless the system knows no local users  (e.g.  is  a  thin
              client).  This feature needs special configuration and a dedicated UNIX user set up. It is highly rec‐
              ommended to combine this with --disallow-module-loading (see below).

       -D | --daemonize[=BOOL]
              Daemonize after startup, i.e. detach from the terminal.

       --fail[=BOOL]
              Fail startup when any of the commands specified in the startup script default.pa (see below) fails.

       --high-priority[=BOOL]
              Try to acquire a high Unix nice level. This will only succeed if  the  calling  user  has  a  non-zero
              RLIMIT_NICE  resource limit set (on systems that support this), or we're called SUID root (see below),
              or we are configure to be run as system daemon (see --system above). It is recommended to enable this,
              since it is only a negligible security risk (see below).

       --realtime[=BOOL]
              Try  to  acquire  a  real-time  scheduling for PulseAudio's I/O threads. This will only succeed if the
              calling user has a non-zero RLIMIT_RTPRIO resource limit set (on systems that support this), or  we're
              called  SUID root (see below), or we are configure to be run as system daemon (see --system above). It
              is recommended to enable this only for trusted users, since it is a major security risk (see below).

       --disallow-module-loading[=BOOL]
              Disallow module loading after startup. This is a security feature since it disallows additional module
              loading  during  runtime  and  on  user  request.  It is highly recommended when --system is used (see
              above). Note however, that this breaks certain features like automatic module loading on hot plug.

       --exit-idle-time=SECS
              Terminate the daemon when idle and the specified number of seconds passed.

       --scache-idle-time=SECS
              Unload autoloaded samples from the cache when the haven't been used for the specified number  of  sec‐
              onds.

       --log-level[=LEVEL]
              If  an argument is passed, set the log level to the specified value, otherwise increase the configured
              verbosity level by one. The log levels are numerical from  0  to  4,  corresponding  to  error,  warn,
              notice,  info,  debug.  Default  log  level is notice, i.e. all log messages with lower log levels are
              printed: error, warn, notice.

       -v     Increase the configured verbosity level by one (see --log-level  above).  Specify  multiple  times  to
              increase log level multiple times.

       --log-target={auto,syslog,stderr,file:PATH,newfile:PATH}
              Specify the log target. If set to auto (which is the default), then logging is directed to syslog when
              --daemonize is passed, otherwise to STDERR. If set to file:PATH, logging is directed to the file indi‐
              cated by PATH. newfile:PATH is otherwise the same as file:PATH, but existing files are never overwrit‐
              ten. If the specified file already exists, a suffix is added to the file name to avoid overwriting.

       --log-meta[=BOOL]
              Show source code location in log messages.

       --log-time[=BOOL]
              Show timestamps in log messages.

       --log-backtrace=FRAMES
              When FRAMES is greater than 0, log for each message a stack trace up to the number of specified  stack
              frames.

       --p | --dl-search-path=PATH
              Set the search path for dynamic shared objects (plugins).

       --resample-method=METHOD
              Use the specified resampler by default (See --dump-resample-methods above for possible values).

       --use-pid-file[=BOOL]
              Create a PID file. If this options is disabled it is possible to run multiple sound servers per user.

       --no-cpu-limit[=BOOL]
              Do  not  install  CPU load limiter on platforms that support it. By default, PulseAudio will terminate
              itself when it notices that it takes up too much CPU time. This is useful as a protection against sys‐
              tem  lockups  when  real-time  scheduling is used (see below). Disabling this mechanism is useful when
              debugging PulseAudio with tools like valgrind(1) which slow down execution.

       --disable-shm[=BOOL]
              PulseAudio clients and the server can exchange audio data via POSIX shared memory segments (on systems
              that support this). If disabled PulseAudio will communicate exclusively over sockets. Please note that
              data transfer via shared memory segments is always disabled when PulseAudio is running  with  --system
              enabled (see above).

       -L | --load="MODULE ARGUMENTS"
              Load the specified plugin module with the specified arguments.

       -F | --file=FILENAME
              Run the specified script on startup. May be specified multiple times to specify multiple scripts to be
              run in order. Combine with -n to disable loading of the default script default.pa (see below).

       -C     Open a command interpreter on STDIN/STDOUT after startup. This may be  used  to  configure  PulseAudio
              dynamically during runtime. Equivalent to --load=module-cli.

       -n     Don't  load  default  script  file default.pa (see below) on startup. Useful in conjunction with -C or
              --file.

FILES
       ~/.config/pulse/daemon.conf, /etc/pulse/daemon.conf: configuration settings for the PulseAudio daemon. If the
       version  in  the user's home directory does not exist the global configuration file is loaded. See pulse-dae‐
       mon.conf(5) for more information.

       ~/.config/pulse/default.pa, /etc/pulse/default.pa: the default  configuration  script  to  execute  when  the
       PulseAudio  daemon is started. If the version in the user's home directory does not exist the global configu‐
       ration script is loaded. See default.pa(5) for more information.

       ~/.config/pulse/client.conf, /etc/pulse/client.conf: configuration settings for  PulseAudio  client  applica‐
       tions.  If  the  version in the user's home directory does not exist the global configuration file is loaded.
       See pulse-client.conf(5) for more information.

SIGNALS
       SIGINT, SIGTERM: the PulseAudio daemon will shut down (Same as --kill).

       SIGHUP: dump a long status report to STDOUT or syslog, depending on the configuration.

       SIGUSR1: load module-cli, allowing runtime reconfiguration via STDIN/STDOUT.

       SIGUSR2: load module-cli-protocol-unix, allowing runtime reconfiguration via a AF_UNIX socket.  See  pacmd(1)
       for more information.

UNIX GROUPS AND USERS
       Group  pulse-rt:  if  the  PulseAudio binary is marked SUID root, then membership of the calling user in this
       group decides whether real-time and/or high-priority scheduling is enabled. Please note that  enabling  real-
       time scheduling is a security risk (see below).

       Group  pulse-access:  if  PulseAudio  is running as a system daemon (see --system above) access is granted to
       members of this group when they connect via AF_UNIX sockets. If PulseAudio is running as a user  daemon  this
       group has no meaning.

       User  pulse,  group pulse: if PulseAudio is running as a system daemon (see --system above) and is started as
       root the daemon will drop privileges and become a normal user process using this user and group. If  PulseAu‐
       dio is running as a user daemon this user and group has no meaning.

REAL-TIME AND HIGH-PRIORITY SCHEDULING
       To minimize the risk of drop-outs during playback it is recommended to run PulseAudio with real-time schedul‐
       ing if the underlying platform supports it. This decouples the scheduling latency of  the  PulseAudio  daemon
       from the system load and is thus the best way to make sure that PulseAudio always gets CPU time when it needs
       it to refill the hardware playback buffers. Unfortunately this is a security  risk  on  most  systems,  since
       PulseAudio  runs  as  user  process, and giving realtime scheduling privileges to a user process always comes
       with the risk that the user misuses it to lock up the system -- which is  possible  since  making  a  process
       real-time effectively disables preemption.

       To minimize the risk PulseAudio by default does not enable real-time scheduling. It is however recommended to
       enable it on trusted systems. To do that start PulseAudio with --realtime (see above) or enabled  the  appro‐
       priate  option in daemon.conf. Since acquiring realtime scheduling is a privileged operation on most systems,
       some special changes to the system configuration need to be made to allow  them  to  the  calling  user.  Two
       options are available:

       On newer Linux systems the system resource limit RLIMIT_RTPRIO (see setrlimit(2) for more information) can be
       used to allow specific users to acquire real-time scheduling. This can be  configured  in  /etc/security/lim‐
       its.conf, a resource limit of 9 is recommended.

       Alternatively, the SUID root bit can be set for the PulseAudio binary. Then, the daemon will drop root privi‐
       leges immediately on startup, however retain the CAP_NICE capability (on systems that support it),  but  only
       if  the  calling user is a member of the pulse-rt group (see above). For all other users all capabilities are
       dropped immediately. The advantage of this solution is that the real-time privileges are only granted to  the
       PulseAudio daemon -- not to all the user's processes.

       Alternatively,  if  the  risk of locking up the machine is considered too big to enable real-time scheduling,
       high-priority scheduling can be enabled instead (i.e. negative nice level). This can be  enabled  by  passing
       --high-priority  (see  above) when starting PulseAudio and may also be enabled with the appropriate option in
       daemon.conf. Negative nice levels can only be enabled when the appropriate resource limit RLIMIT_NICE is  set
       (see  setrlimit(2)  for more information), possibly configured in /etc/security/limits.conf. A resource limit
       of 31 (corresponding with nice level -11) is recommended.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The PulseAudio client libraries check for the existence of the following  environment  variables  and  change
       their local configuration accordingly:

       $PULSE_SERVER:  the  server  string specifying the server to connect to when a client asks for a sound server
       connection and doesn't explicitly ask for a specific server. The server string is a list of server  addresses
       separated by whitespace which are tried in turn. A server address consists of an optional address type speci‐
       fier (unix:, tcp:, tcp4:, tcp6:), followed by a path or host address. A host address may include an  optional
       port number.

       $PULSE_SINK:  the symbolic name of the sink to connect to when a client creates a playback stream and doesn't
       explicitly ask for a specific sink.

       $PULSE_SOURCE: the symbolic name of the source to connect to when  a  client  creates  a  record  stream  and
       doesn't explicitly ask for a specific source.

       $PULSE_BINARY: path of PulseAudio executable to run when server auto-spawning is used.

       $PULSE_CLIENTCONFIG: path of file that shall be read instead of client.conf (see above) for client configura‐
       tion.

       $PULSE_COOKIE: path of  file  that  contains  the  PulseAudio  authentication  cookie.  Defaults  to  ~/.con‐
       fig/pulse/cookie.

       These environment settings take precedence -- if set -- over the configuration settings from client.conf (see
       above).

AUTHORS
       The PulseAudio Developers <pulseaudio-discuss (at) lists (dot) freedesktop (dot) org>; PulseAudio  is  avail‐
       able from http://pulseaudio.org/

SEE ALSO
       pulse-daemon.conf(5), default.pa(5), pulse-client.conf(5), pacmd(1)



Manuals                                                 User                                           pulseaudio(1)
