PYGETTEXT(1)                                   General Commands Manual                                  PYGETTEXT(1)



NAME
       pygettext - Python equivalent of xgettext(1)

SYNOPSIS
       pygettext [OPTIONS] INPUTFILE ...

DESCRIPTION
       pygettext is deprecated. The current version of xgettext supports many languages, including Python.

       pygettext  uses Python's standard tokenize module to scan Python source code, generating .pot files identical
       to what GNU xgettext generates for C and C++ code.  From there, the standard GNU tools can be used.

       pygettext searches only for _() by default, even though GNU xgettext recognizes the following keywords:  get‐
       text, dgettext, dcgettext, and gettext_noop. See the -k/--keyword flag below for how to augment this.

OPTIONS
       -a, --extract-all
              Extract all strings.

       -d, --default-domain=NAME
              Rename the default output file from messages.pot to name.pot.

       -E, --escape
              Replace non-ASCII characters with octal escape sequences.

       -D, --docstrings
              Extract  module, class, method, and function docstrings.  These do not need to be wrapped in _() mark‐
              ers, and in fact cannot be for Python to consider them docstrings. (See also the -X option).

       -h, --help
              Print this help message and exit.

       -k, --keyword=WORD
              Keywords to look for in addition to the default set, which are: _

              You can have multiple -k flags on the command line.

       -K, --no-default-keywords
              Disable the default set of keywords (see above).  Any keywords explicitly added with the  -k/--keyword
              option are still recognized.

       --no-location
              Do not write filename/lineno location comments.

       -n, --add-location
              Write filename/lineno location comments indicating where each extracted string is found in the source.
              These lines appear before each msgid.  The style of comments is controlled by the  -S/--style  option.
              This is the default.

       -o, --output=FILENAME
              Rename  the  default output file from messages.pot to FILENAME.  If FILENAME is `-' then the output is
              sent to standard out.

       -p, --output-dir=DIR
              Output files will be placed in directory DIR.

       -S, --style=STYLENAME
              Specify which style to use for location comments.  Two styles are supported:

              ·   Solaris   # File: filename, line: line-number

              ·   GNU       #: filename:line

              The style name is case insensitive.  GNU style is the default.

       -v, --verbose
              Print the names of the files being processed.

       -V, --version
              Print the version of pygettext and exit.

       -w, --width=COLUMNS
              Set width of output to columns.

       -x, --exclude-file=FILENAME
              Specify a file that contains a list of strings that are not be extracted from the input  files.   Each
              string to be excluded must appear on a line by itself in the file.

       -X, --no-docstrings=FILENAME
              Specify  a  file  that  contains  a list of files (one per line) that should not have their docstrings
              extracted.  This is only useful in conjunction with the -D option above.

       If `INPUTFILE' is -, standard input is read.

BUGS
       pygettext attempts to be option and feature compatible with GNU xgettext where ever possible.   However  some
       options  are  still missing or are not fully implemented.  Also, xgettext's use of command line switches with
       option arguments is broken, and in these cases, pygettext just defines additional switches.

AUTHOR
       pygettext is written by Barry Warsaw <barry@zope.com>.

       Joonas Paalasmaa <joonas.paalasmaa@iki.fi> put this manual page together based on "pygettext --help".



pygettext 1.4                                                                                           PYGETTEXT(1)
