rawtoppm(1)                                    General Commands Manual                                   rawtoppm(1)



NAME
       rawtoppm - convert raw RGB bytes into a portable pixmap

SYNOPSIS
       rawtoppm  [-headerskip N] [-rowskip N] [-rgb|-rbg|-grb |-gbr|-brg|-bgr ] [-interpixel|-interrow] width height
       [imagedata]

DESCRIPTION
       Reads raw RGB bytes as input.  Produces a portable pixmap as output.  The input file is just RGB bytes.   You
       have to specify the width and height on the command line, since the program obviously can't get them from the
       file.  The maxval is assumed to be 255.  If the resulting image is upside down, run it through pnmflip -tb .

OPTIONS
       -headerskip
              If the file has a header, you can use this flag to skip over it.

       -rowskip
              If there is padding at the ends of the rows, you can skip it with this flag.

       -rgb -rbg -grb -gbr -brg -bgr
              These flags let you specify alternate color orders.  The default is -rgb.

       -interpixel -interrow
              These flags let you specify how the colors are  interleaved.   The  default  is  -interpixel,  meaning
              interleaved by pixel.  A byte of red, a byte of green, and a byte of blue, or whatever color order you
              specified.  -interrow means interleaved by row - a row of red, a row of green, a row of blue, assuming
              standard rgb color order.  An -interplane flag  - all the red pixels, then all the green, then all the
              blue - would be an obvious extension, but is not implemented.  You could get the same effect by split‐
              ting  the  file  into three parts (perhaps using dd), turning each part into a PGM file with rawtopgm,
              and then combining them with rgb3toppm.

SEE ALSO
       ppm(5), rawtopgm(1), rgb3toppm(1), pnmflip(1)

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 1991 by Jef Poskanzer.



                                                  06 February 1991                                       rawtoppm(1)
