rawtopgm(1)                                    General Commands Manual                                   rawtopgm(1)



NAME
       rawtopgm - convert raw grayscale bytes into a portable graymap

SYNOPSIS
       rawtopgm  [-bpp  [1|2]]  [-littleendian]  [-maxval  N]  [-headerskip  N] [-rowskip N] [-tb|-topbottom] [width
       height] [imagefile]


DESCRIPTION
       Reads raw grayscale values as input.  Produces a PGM file as output.  The input file is just  a  sequence  of
       pure  binary  numbers, either one or two bytes each, either bigendian or littleendian, representing gray val‐
       ues.  They may be arranged either top to bottom, left to right or bottom to top, left to right.  There may be
       arbitrary  header information at the start of the file (to which rawtopgm pays no attention at all other than
       the header's size).

       Arguments to rawtopgm tell how to interpret the pixels (a function that is served by a header  in  a  regular
       graphics format).

       The  width  and  height  parameters tell the dimensions of the image.  If you omit these parameters, rawtopgm
       assumes it is a quadratic image and bases the dimensions on the size of the input stream.  If  this  size  is
       not a perfect square, rawtopgm fails.

       When  you  don't specify width and height, rawtopgm reads the entire input stream into storage at once, which
       may take a lot of storage.  Otherwise, rawtopgm ordinarily stores only one row at a time.

       If you don't specify imagefile, or specify -, the input is from Standard Input.

       The PGM output is to Standard Output.




OPTIONS
       -maxval N
              N is the maxval for the gray values in the input, and is also the maxval of the PGM output image.  The
              default is the maximum value that can be represented in the number of bytes used for each sample (i.e.
              255 or 65535).

       -bpp [1|2]
              tells the number of bytes that represent each sample in the input.  If the value is 2, The  most  sig‐
              nificant byte is first in the stream.

              The default is 1 byte per sample.


       -littleendian
              says  that  the bytes of each input sample are ordered with the least significant byte first.  Without
              this option, rawtopgm assumes MSB first.  This obviously has no effect when there is only one byte per
              sample.


       -headerskip N
              rawtopgm skips over N bytes at the beginning of the stream and reads the image immediately after.  The
              default is 0.

              This is useful when the input is actually some graphics format that has a descriptive header  followed
              by  an ordinary raster, and you don't have a program that understands the header or you want to ignore
              the header.


       -rowskip N
              If there is padding at the ends of the rows, you can skip it with this option.  Note that rowskip need
              not  be  an integer.  Amazingly, I once had an image with 0.376 bytes of padding per row.  This turned
              out to be due to a file-transfer problem, but I was still able to read the image.

              Skipping a fractional byte per row means skipping one byte per multiple rows.

       -bt -bottomfirst
              By default, rawtopgm assumes the pixels in the input go top to bottom, left to right.  If you  specify
              -bt  or  -bottomfirst,  rawtopgm  assumes  the  pixels go bottom to top, left to right.  The Molecular
              Dynamics and Leica confocal format, for example, use the latter arrangement.

              If you don't specify -bt when you should or vice versa, the resulting image is upside down, which  you
              can correct with pnmflip .

              This option causes rawtopgm to read the entire input stream into storage at once, which may take a lot
              of storage.  Ordinarly, rawtopgm stores only one row at a time.

              For backwards compatibility, rawtopgm also accepts -tb and -topbottom to mean exactly the same  thing.
              The reasons these are named backwards is that the original author thought of it as specifying that the
              wrong results of assuming the data is top to bottom should be corrected by flipping the result top for
              bottom.   Today, we think of it as simply specifying the format of the input data so that there are no
              wrong results.


SEE ALSO
       pgm(5), rawtoppm(1), pnmflip(1)


AUTHORS
       Copyright (C) 1989 by Jef Poskanzer.
       Modified June 1993 by Oliver Trepte, oliver@fysik4.kth.se



                                                  14 September 2000                                      rawtopgm(1)
