READOM(1)                                      Schily´s USER COMMANDS                                      READOM(1)



NAME
       readom - read or write data Compact Discs

SYNOPSIS
       readom dev=device [ options ]


DESCRIPTION
       Readom is used to read or write Compact Discs.

       The device refers to a device location similar to the one used in the wodim command. Refer to its manpage for
       details.

       Also note that this version of readom uses a modified libusal library which has a  different  behaviour  com‐
       pared to the one distributed by its original author.


OPTIONS
       If  no  options except the dev= option have been specified, readom goes into interactive mode.  Select a pri‐
       mary function and then follow the instructions.

       -version
              Print version information and exit.

       dev=target
              Sets the SCSI target for the drive, see notes above.  A typical device specification is dev=6,0 .   If
              a  filename  must be provided together with the numerical target specification, the filename is imple‐
              mentation specific.  The correct filename in this case can be found in the system specific manuals  of
              the  target  operating  system.   On a FreeBSD system without CAM support, you need to use the control
              device (e.g.  /dev/rcd0.ctl).  A correct device specification in this case may be  dev=/dev/rcd0.ctl:@
              .

              On  Linux,  drives  connected  to  a parallel port adapter are mapped to a virtual SCSI bus. Different
              adapters are mapped to different targets on this virtual SCSI bus.

              If no dev option is present, readom will try to get the device from the CDR_DEVICE environment.

              If the argument to the dev= option does not contain the characters ',', '/', '@' or ':', it is  inter‐
              preted as an label name that may be found in the file /etc/wodim.conf (see FILES section).

       timeout=#
              Set the default SCSI command timeout value to # seconds.  The default SCSI command timeout is the min‐
              imum timeout used for sending SCSI commands.  If a SCSI command fails due to a timeout, you may try to
              raise  the default SCSI command timeout above the timeout value of the failed command.  If the command
              runs correctly with a raised command timeout, please report the better timeout value  and  the  corre‐
              sponding  command to the author of the program.  If no timeout option is present, a default timeout of
              40 seconds is used.

       debug=#, -d
              Set the misc debug value to # (with debug=#) or increment the misc debug level by one  (with  -d).  If
              you  specify  -dd,  this equals to debug=2.  This may help to find problems while opening a driver for
              libusal.  as well as with sector sizes and sector types.  Using -debug slows down the process and  may
              be the reason for a buffer underrun.

       kdebug=#, kd=#
              Tell the usal-driver to modify the kernel debug value while SCSI commands are running.

       -silent, -s
              Do not print out a status report for failed SCSI commands.

       -v     Increment  the  level  of  general verbosity by one.  This is used e.g. to display the progress of the
              process.

       -V     Increment the verbose level with respect of SCSI command transport by one.  This helps to debug  prob‐
              lems  during  the  process, that occur in the CD-Recorder.  If you get incomprehensible error messages
              you should use this flag to get more detailed output.  -VV will show data buffer content in  addition.
              Using -V or -VV slows down the process.

       f=file Specify  the  filename where the output should be written or the input should be taken from. Using '-'
              as filename will cause readom to use stdout resp. stdin.

       -w     Switch to write mode. If this option is not present, readom reads from the specified device.

       -c2scan
              Scans the whole CD or the range specified by the sectors=range for C2 errors.  C2  errors  are  errors
              that  are  uncorrectable after the second stage of the 24/28 + 28/32 Reed Solomon correction system at
              audio level (2352 bytes sector size). If an audio CD has C2 errors, interpolation is  needed  to  hide
              the  errors.  If a data CD has C2 errors, these errors are in most cases corrected by the ECC/EDC code
              that makes 2352 bytes out of 2048 data bytes. The ECC/EDC code should be able to correct about 100  C2
              error bytes per sector.

              If  you  find C2 errors you may want to reduce the speed using the speed= option as C2 errors may be a
              result of dynamic unbalance on the medium.

       -scanbus
              Scan all SCSI devices on all SCSI busses and print the inquiry strings. This option  may  be  used  to
              find  SCSI address of the devices on a system.  The numbers printed out as labels are computed by: bus
              * 100 + target

       sectors=range
              Specify a sector range that should be read.  The range is specified by the starting sector  number,  a
              minus  sign  and the ending sector number.  The end sector is not included in the list, so sectors=0-0
              will not read anything and may be used to check for a CD in the drive.

       speed=#
              Set the speed factor of the read or write process to #.  # is an integer, representing a  multiple  of
              the  audio  speed.   This  is  about 150 KB/s for CD-ROM and about 172 KB/s for CD-Audio.  If no speed
              option is present, readom will use maximum speed.  Only MMC compliant drives will  benefit  from  this
              option.  The speed of non MMC drives is not changed.

              Using a lower speed may increase the readability of a CD or DVD.

       ts=#   Set  the  maximum  transfer size for a single SCSI command to #.  The syntax for the ts= option is the
              same as for wodim fs=# or sdd bs=#.

              If no ts= option has been specified, readom defaults to a transfer size of 256  kB.  If  libusal  gets
              lower  values  from  the  operating system, the value is reduced to the maximum value that is possible
              with the current operating system.  Sometimes, it may help to further reduce the transfer size  or  to
              enhance it, but note that it may take a long time to find a better value by experimenting with the ts=
              option.

       -notrunc
              Do not truncate the output file when opening it.

       -fulltoc
              Retrieve a full TOC from the current disk and print it in hex.

       -clone Do a clone read. Read the CD with all sub-channel data and a full TOC.  The full TOC data will be  put
              into a file with similar name as with the f= option but the suffix .toc added.

       -noerror
              Do  not  abort  if  the  high  level error checking in readom found an uncorrectable error in the data
              stream.

       -nocorr
              Switch the drive into a mode where it ignores read errors in data sectors that are a result of  uncor‐
              rectable  ECC/EDC errors before reading.  If readom completes, the error recovery mode of the drive is
              switched back to the remembered old mode.

       retries=#
              Set the retry count for high level retries in readom to #.  The default is to do 128 retries which may
              be too much if you like to read a CD with many unreadable sectors.

       -overhead
              Meter  the  SCSI  command  overhead  time.   This is done by executing several commands 1000 times and
              printing the total time used. If you divide the displayed times by 1000, you get the average  overhead
              time for a single command.

       meshpoints=#
              Print  read-speed at # locations.  The purpose of this option is to create a list of read speed values
              suitable for e.g.  gnuplot.  The speed values are calculated assuming that 1000 bytes are one kilobyte
              as documented in the SCSI standard.  The output data created for this purpose is written to stdout.

       -factor
              Output  the speed values for meshpoints=# as factor based on single speed of the current medium.  This
              only works if readom is able to determine the current medium type.

EXAMPLES
       For all examples below, it will be assumed that the drive is  connected  to  the  primary  SCSI  bus  of  the
       machine. The SCSI target id is set to 2.

       To read the complete media from a CD-ROM writing the data to the file cdimage.raw:

           readom dev=2,0 f=cdimage.raw

       To read sectors from range 150 ... 10000 from a CD-ROM writing the data to the file cdimage.raw:

           readom dev=2,0 sectors=150-10000 f=cdimage.raw

       To write the data from the file cdimage.raw (e.g. a filesystem image from genisoimage) to a DVD-RAM, call:

           readom dev=2,0 -w f=cdimage.raw


ENVIRONMENT
       RSH    If  the RSH environment is present, the remote connection will not be created via rcmd(3) but by call‐
              ing the program pointed to by RSH.  Use e.g.  RSH=/usr/bin/ssh to create a secure shell connection.

              Note that this forces wodim to create a pipe to the rsh(1) program and  disallows  wodim  to  directly
              access the network socket to the remote server.  This makes it impossible to set up performance param‐
              eters and slows down the connection compared to a root initiated rcmd(3) connection.

       RSCSI  If  the  RSCSI  environment  is  present,  the  remote  SCSI  server   will   not   be   the   program
              /opt/schily/sbin/rscsi  but the program pointed to by RSCSI.  Note that the remote SCSI server program
              name will be ignored if you log in using an account that has been created with a  remote  SCSI  server
              program as login shell.

SEE ALSO
       wodim(1), genisoimage(1), rcmd(3), ssh(1).


NOTES
       Unless  you  want to risk getting problems, readom should be run as root. If you don't want to allow users to
       become root on your system, readom may safely be installed suid root.  For more  information  see  the  addi‐
       tional notes of your system/program distribution or README.suidroot which is part of the Cdrkit source.

       Documentation of the wodim program contains more technical details which could also apply to readom.


DIAGNOSTICS
       A typical error message for a SCSI command looks like:

              readom: I/O error. test unit ready: scsi sendcmd: no error
              CDB:  00 20 00 00 00 00
              status: 0x2 (CHECK CONDITION)
              Sense Bytes: 70 00 05 00 00 00 00 0A 00 00 00 00 25 00 00 00 00 00
              Sense Key: 0x5 Illegal Request, Segment 0
              Sense Code: 0x25 Qual 0x00 (logical unit not supported) Fru 0x0
              Sense flags: Blk 0 (not valid)
              cmd finished after 0.002s timeout 40s

       The  first  line  gives information about the transport of the command.  The text after the first colon gives
       the error text for the system call from the view of the kernel. It usually is: I/O error unless  other  prob‐
       lems happen. The next words contain a short description for the SCSI command that fails. The rest of the line
       tells you if there were any problems for the transport of the command over the SCSI bus.  fatal  error  means
       that it was not possible to transport the command (i.e. no device present at the requested SCSI address).

       The second line prints the SCSI command descriptor block for the failed command.

       The  third  line  gives  information on the SCSI status code returned by the command, if the transport of the
       command succeeds.  This is error information from the SCSI device.

       The fourth line is a hex dump of the auto request sense information for the command.

       The fifth line is the error text for the sense key if available, followed by the segment number that is  only
       valid if the command was a copy command. If the error message is not directly related to the current command,
       the text deferred error is appended.

       The sixth line is the error text for the sense code and the sense qualifier if available.  If the type of the
       device  is  known,  the  sense data is decoded from tables in scsierrs.c .  The text is followed by the error
       value for a field replaceable unit.

       The seventh line prints the block number that is related to the failed command and  text  for  several  error
       flags. The block number may not be valid.

       The  eight  line  reports  the timeout set up for this command and the time that the command really needed to
       complete.


BUGS
       The readom program described here is the Cdrkit spinoff from the original readcd application (see AUTHOR sec‐
       tion for details). It may contain bugs not present in the original implementation.

       It is definitely less portable than the original implementation.

       For  platform  specific  bugs,  see  the  corresponding README.platform file in the Cdrkit documentation (eg.
       README.linux).


MAILING LISTS
       If you want to actively take part on the development of readom, you may join the developer mailing  list  via
       this URL:

       http://alioth.debian.org/mail/?group_id=31006

       The mail address of the list is: debburn-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org





AUTHOR
       Joerg Schilling
       Seestr. 110
       D-13353 Berlin
       Germany


       This is application is a spinoff from the original implementation of readcd delivered in the cdrtools package
       [1] created by Joerg Schilling, who deserves the most credits for its success. However, he  is  not  involved
       into the development of this spinoff and therefore he shall not be made responsible for any problem caused by
       it. Do not try to get support from the original author!

       Additional information can be found on:
       https://alioth.debian.org/projects/debburn/

       If you have support questions, send them to

       debburn-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org

       If you have definitely found a bug, send a mail to this list or to

       submit@bugs.debian.org

       writing at least a short description into the Subject and "Package: cdrkit" into the first line of  the  mail
       body.

SOURCES
       [1] Cdrtools 2.01.01a08 from May 2006, http://cdrecord.berlios.de




Joerg Schilling                                      Version 2.0                                           READOM(1)
