REINDEXDB(1)                               PostgreSQL 9.3.16 Documentation                              REINDEXDB(1)



NAME
       reindexdb - reindex a PostgreSQL database

SYNOPSIS
       reindexdb [connection-option...] [ --table | -t table ]...  [ --index | -i index ]...  [dbname]

       reindexdb [connection-option...] --all | -a

       reindexdb [connection-option...] --system | -s  [dbname]

DESCRIPTION
       reindexdb is a utility for rebuilding indexes in a PostgreSQL database.

       reindexdb is a wrapper around the SQL command REINDEX(7). There is no effective difference between reindexing
       databases via this utility and via other methods for accessing the server.

OPTIONS
       reindexdb accepts the following command-line arguments:

       -a, --all
           Reindex all databases.

       [-d] dbname, [--dbname=]dbname
           Specifies the name of the database to be reindexed. If this is not specified and -a (or --all) is not
           used, the database name is read from the environment variable PGDATABASE. If that is not set, the user
           name specified for the connection is used.

       -e, --echo
           Echo the commands that reindexdb generates and sends to the server.

       -i index, --index=index
           Recreate index only. Multiple indexes can be recreated by writing multiple -i switches.

       -q, --quiet
           Do not display progress messages.

       -s, --system
           Reindex database's system catalogs.

       -t table, --table=table
           Reindex table only. Multiple tables can be reindexed by writing multiple -t switches.

       -V, --version
           Print the reindexdb version and exit.

       -?, --help
           Show help about reindexdb command line arguments, and exit.

       reindexdb also accepts the following command-line arguments for connection parameters:

       -h host, --host=host
           Specifies the host name of the machine on which the server is running. If the value begins with a slash,
           it is used as the directory for the Unix domain socket.

       -p port, --port=port
           Specifies the TCP port or local Unix domain socket file extension on which the server is listening for
           connections.

       -U username, --username=username
           User name to connect as.

       -w, --no-password
           Never issue a password prompt. If the server requires password authentication and a password is not
           available by other means such as a .pgpass file, the connection attempt will fail. This option can be
           useful in batch jobs and scripts where no user is present to enter a password.

       -W, --password
           Force reindexdb to prompt for a password before connecting to a database.

           This option is never essential, since reindexdb will automatically prompt for a password if the server
           demands password authentication. However, reindexdb will waste a connection attempt finding out that the
           server wants a password. In some cases it is worth typing -W to avoid the extra connection attempt.

       --maintenance-db=dbname
           Specifies the name of the database to connect to discover what other databases should be reindexed. If
           not specified, the postgres database will be used, and if that does not exist, template1 will be used.

ENVIRONMENT
       PGDATABASE, PGHOST, PGPORT, PGUSER
           Default connection parameters

       This utility, like most other PostgreSQL utilities, also uses the environment variables supported by libpq
       (see Section 31.14, “Environment Variables”, in the documentation).

DIAGNOSTICS
       In case of difficulty, see REINDEX(7) and psql(1) for discussions of potential problems and error messages.
       The database server must be running at the targeted host. Also, any default connection settings and
       environment variables used by the libpq front-end library will apply.

NOTES
       reindexdb might need to connect several times to the PostgreSQL server, asking for a password each time. It
       is convenient to have a ~/.pgpass file in such cases. See Section 31.15, “The Password File”, in the
       documentation for more information.

EXAMPLES
       To reindex the database test:

           $ reindexdb test

       To reindex the table foo and the index bar in a database named abcd:

           $ reindexdb --table foo --index bar abcd

SEE ALSO
       REINDEX(7)



PostgreSQL 9.3.16                                       2017                                            REINDEXDB(1)
