RESIZE(1)                                          X Window System                                         RESIZE(1)



NAME
       resize - set environment and terminal settings to current xterm window size

SYNOPSIS
       resize [ -v | -u | -c ] [ -s [ row col ] ]

DESCRIPTION
       Resize  prints a shell command for setting the appropriate environment variables to indicate the current size
       of xterm window from which the command is run.

       Resize determines the command through several steps:

       ·   first, it finds the name of the user's shell program.  It uses the SHELL variable if  set,  otherwise  it
           uses the user's data from /etc/passwd.

       ·   then  it decides whether to use Bourne shell syntax or C-Shell syntax.  It uses a built-in table of known
           shells, which can be overridden by the -u and -c options.

       ·   then resize asks the operating system for the terminal settings.  This is the same information which  can
           be manipulated using stty.

       ·   then  resize asks the terminal for its size in characters.  Depending on whether the "-s option is given,
           resize uses a different escape sequence to ask for this information.

       ·   at this point, resize attempts to update the terminal settings to reflect the terminal window's  size  in
           pixels:

           ·   if the -s option is used, resize then asks the terminal for its size in pixels.

           ·   otherwise,  resize asks the operating system for the information and updates that after ensuring that
               the window's dimensions are a multiple of the character height and width.

           ·   in either case, the updated terminal settings are done using a different system call  than  used  for
               stty.

       ·   then  resize updates the terminal settings to reflect any altered values such as its size in rows or col‐
           umns.  This affects the values shown by stty.

       ·   finally, resize writes the shell command for setting the environment variables to the standard output.

EXAMPLES
       For resize's output to take effect, resize must either be evaluated as part of the command line (usually done
       with  a  shell  alias  or function) or else redirected to a file which can then be read in.  From the C shell
       (usually known as /bin/csh), the following alias could be defined in the user's .cshrc:

               %  alias rs 'set noglob; eval `resize`'

       After resizing the window, the user would type:

               %  rs

       Users of versions of the Bourne shell (usually known as /bin/sh) that don't have command functions will  need
       to send the output to a temporary file and then read it back in with the “.” command:

               $  resize > /tmp/out
               $  . /tmp/out

OPTIONS
       The following options may be used with resize:

       -c      This  option  indicates that C shell commands should be generated even if the user's current shell is
               not /bin/csh.

       -s [rows columns]
               This option indicates that Sun console escape sequences will be used instead of the VT100-style xterm
               escape  codes.  If rows and columns are given, resize will ask the xterm to resize itself using those
               values.

               Both of the escape sequences used for this option (first to obtain the window size and second to mod‐
               ify  it)  are subject to xterm's allowWindowOps resource setting.  The window manager may also choose
               to disallow the change.

               The VT100-style escape sequence used to determine the screen size always works  for  VT100-compatible
               terminals.  VT100s have no corresponding way to modify the screensize.

       -u      This option indicates that Bourne shell commands should be generated even if the user's current shell
               is not /bin/sh.

       -v      This causes resize to print a version number to the standard output, and then exit.

       Note that the Sun console escape sequences are recognized by XFree86 xterm and by dtterm.  The resize program
       may be installed as sunsize, which causes makes it assume the -s option.

       The rows and columns arguments must appear last; though they are normally associated with the -s option, they
       are parsed separately.

FILES
       /etc/termcap   for the base termcap entry to modify.

       ~/.cshrc       user's alias for the command.

ENVIRONMENT
       SHELL          Resize determines the user's current shell by first checking if $SHELL is set, and using that.
                      Otherwise  it determines the user's shell by looking in the password file (/etc/passwd).  Gen‐
                      erally Bourne-shell variants (including ksh) do not modify  $SHELL,  so  it  is  possible  for
                      resize to be confused if one runs resize from a Bourne shell spawned from a C shell.

       TERM           Resize sets this to "xterm" if not already set.

       TERMCAP        Resize sets this variable on systems using termcap, e.g., when resize is linked with the term‐
                      cap library rather than a terminfo library.  The latter does not provide the complete text for
                      a termcap entry.

       COLUMNS, LINES Resize  sets  these  variables  on  systems  using terminfo.  Many applications (including the
                      curses library) use those variables when set to override their screensize.

SEE ALSO
       use_env(3)
       csh(1), stty(1), tset(1)
       xterm(1)

AUTHORS
       Mark Vandevoorde (MIT-Athena), Edward Moy (Berkeley)
       Thomas Dickey (invisible-island.net).
       Copyright (c) 1984, 1985 by X Consortium
       See X(7) for a complete copyright notice.



Patch #297                                           2013-09-10                                            RESIZE(1)
