RLETOPNM(1)                                    General Commands Manual                                   RLETOPNM(1)



NAME
       rletopnm - convert a Utah Raster Tools RLE image file into a PNM image file.

SYNOPSIS
       rletopnm [--alphaout={alpha-filename,-}] [--headerdump|-h] [--verbose|-v] [--plain|-p] [rlefile|-]

       All  options  may be abbreviated to their minimum unique abbreviation and options and arguments may be in any
       order.


DESCRIPTION
       This program converts Utah Raster Toolkit RLE image files into PNM image files.  rletopnm handles four  types
       of  RLE files: Grayscale (8 bit data, no color map), Pseudocolor (8 bit data with a color map), Truecolor (24
       bit data with color map), and Directcolor (24 bit data, no color map).  rletopnm generates a PPM file for all
       these cases except for the Grayscale file, for which rletopnm generates a PGM file.

       rlefile is the RLE input file.  If it is absent or -, the input comes from Standard Input.


OPTIONS
       --alphaout=alpha-filename
              rletopnm creates a PGM (portable graymap) file containing the alpha channel values in the input image.
              If the input image doesn't contain an alpha channel, the alpha-filename file contains all zero (trans‐
              parent)  alpha values.  If you don't specify --alphaout, rletopnm does not generate an alpha file, and
              if the input image has an alpha channel, rletopnm simply discards it.

              If you specify - as the filename, rletopnm writes the alpha output to Standard Output and discards the
              image.

              See pnmcomp(1) for one way to use the alpha output file.

       --verbose
              This  option  causes  rletopnm  to operate in verbose mode.  It prints messages about what it's doing,
              including the contents of the RLE image header, to Standard Error.

       --headerdump
              This option causes rletopnm to operate in header dump mode.  It prints the contents of the  RLE  image
              header to Standard Error, but does not produce any other output.

       --plain
              This  option  causes  the  PNM  output file to be in the "plain" (text) format, instead of the default
              "raw" (binary) format.  See ppm(5) and pgm(5) for details on the difference.


EXAMPLES
       rletopnm --verbose lenna.rle >lenna.ppm
              While running in verbose mode, convert lenna.rle to PPM  format  and  store  the  resulting  image  as
              lenna.ppm.

       rletopnm --headerdump file.rle
              Dump the header information of the RLE file called file.rle.

       rletopnm --alphaout=dartalpha.pgm dart.rle >dart.ppm
              Convert  RLE  file dart.rle to PPM format as dart.ppm.  Store the alpha channel of dart.rle as dartal‐
              pha.pgm (if dart.rle doesn't have an alpha channel, store a fully transparent alpha  mask  as  dartal‐
              pha.pgm).


SEE ALSO
       pnmtorle(1), pnmconvol(1), pnm(5), ppm(5), pgm(5), urt(1), RLE(5)

AUTHOR
       Wes Barris
       Army High Performance Computing Research Center (AHPCRC)
       Minnesota Supercomputer Center, Inc.

       Modifications by Eric Haines to support raw and plain formats.

       Modifications by Bryan Henderson to create alpha files and use mnemonic options.



1                                                   13 April 2000                                        RLETOPNM(1)
