RSTART(1)                                      General Commands Manual                                     RSTART(1)



NAME
       rstart - a sample implementation of a Remote Start client

SYNOPSIS
       rstart [-c context] [-g] [-l username] [-v] hostname command args ...

DESCRIPTION
       Rstart  is a simple implementation of a Remote Start client as defined in "A Flexible Remote Execution Proto‐
       col Based on rsh".  It uses rsh as its underlying remote execution mechanism.

OPTIONS
       -c context
               This option specifies the context in which the command is to be run.  A context specifies  a  general
               environment  the  program  is  to  be run in.  The details of this environment are host-specific; the
               intent is that the client need not know how the environment must be configured.  If omitted, the con‐
               text defaults to X.  This should be suitable for running X programs from the host's "usual" X instal‐
               lation.

       -g      Interprets command as a generic command, as discussed in the protocol document.  This is intended  to
               allow  common  applications  to be invoked without knowing what they are called on the remote system.
               Currently, the only generic commands defined are Terminal, LoadMonitor, ListContexts, and  ListGener‐
               icCommands.

       -l username
               This  option  is  passed  to the underlying rsh; it requests that the command be run as the specified
               user.

       -v      This option requests that rstart be verbose in its operation.  Without this option,  rstart  discards
               output  from the remote's rstart helper, and directs the rstart helper to detach the program from the
               rsh connection used to start it.  With this option, responses from the helper are displayed  and  the
               resulting program is not detached from the connection.

NOTES
       This  is  a trivial implementation.  Far more sophisticated implementations are possible and should be devel‐
       oped.

       Error handling is nonexistent.  Without -v, error reports from the remote are discarded silently.   With  -v,
       error reports are displayed.

       The  $DISPLAY  environment  variable  is passed.  If it starts with a colon, the local hostname is prepended.
       The local domain name should be appended to unqualified host names, but isn't.

       The $SESSION_MANAGER environment variable should be passed, but isn't.

       X11 authority information is passed for the current display.

       ICE authority information should be passed, but isn't.  It isn't completely clear how  rstart  should  select
       what ICE authority information to pass.

       Even  without  -v,  the  sample  rstart  helper will leave a shell waiting for the program to complete.  This
       causes no real harm and consumes relatively few resources, but if it is undesirable  it  can  be  avoided  by
       explicitly specifying the "exec" command to the shell, eg
       rstart somehost exec xterm
       This  is  obviously  dependent  on the command interpreter being used on the remote system; the example given
       will work for the Bourne and C shells.

SEE ALSO
       rstartd(1), rsh(1), A Flexible Remote Execution Protocol Based on rsh

AUTHOR
       Jordan Brown, Quarterdeck Office Systems



X Version 11                                        rstart 1.0.5                                           RSTART(1)
