SETFACL(1)                                      Access Control Lists                                      SETFACL(1)



NAME
       setfacl - set file access control lists

SYNOPSIS
       setfacl [-bkndRLPvh] [{-m|-x} acl_spec] [{-M|-X} acl_file] file ...

       setfacl --restore=file


DESCRIPTION
       This  utility  sets Access Control Lists (ACLs) of files and directories.  On the command line, a sequence of
       commands is followed by a sequence of files (which in turn can be followed by another sequence  of  commands,
       ...).

       The options -m, and -x expect an ACL on the command line. Multiple ACL entries are separated by comma charac‐
       ters (`,'). The options -M, and -X read an ACL from a file or from standard input. The ACL  entry  format  is
       described in Section ACL ENTRIES.

       The  --set  and  --set-file  options set the ACL of a file or a directory. The previous ACL is replaced.  ACL
       entries for this operation must include permissions.

       The -m (--modify) and -M (--modify-file) options modify the ACL of a file or directory.  ACL entries for this
       operation must include permissions.

       The  -x  (--remove)  and -X (--remove-file) options remove ACL entries. It is not an error to remove an entry
       which does not exist.  Only  ACL  entries  without  the  perms  field  are  accepted  as  parameters,  unless
       POSIXLY_CORRECT is defined.

       When  reading from files using the -M, and -X options, setfacl accepts the output getfacl produces.  There is
       at most one ACL entry per line. After a Pound sign (`#'), everything up to the end of the line is treated  as
       a comment.

       If setfacl is used on a file system which does not support ACLs, setfacl operates on the file mode permission
       bits. If the ACL does not fit completely in the permission bits, setfacl modifies the  file  mode  permission
       bits  to  reflect the ACL as closely as possible, writes an error message to standard error, and returns with
       an exit status greater than 0.


   PERMISSIONS
       The file owner and processes capable of CAP_FOWNER are granted the right to modify ACLs of a  file.  This  is
       analogous  to  the  permissions  required for accessing the file mode. (On current Linux systems, root is the
       only user with the CAP_FOWNER capability.)


OPTIONS
       -b, --remove-all
           Remove all extended ACL entries. The base ACL entries of the owner, group and others are retained.

       -k, --remove-default
           Remove the Default ACL. If no Default ACL exists, no warnings are issued.

       -n, --no-mask
           Do not recalculate the effective rights mask. The default behavior of setfacl is to recalculate  the  ACL
           mask  entry, unless a mask entry was explicitly given.  The mask entry is set to the union of all permis‐
           sions of the owning group, and all named user and group entries. (These are exactly the entries  affected
           by the mask entry).

       --mask
           Do  recalculate  the  effective  rights mask, even if an ACL mask entry was explicitly given. (See the -n
           option.)

       -d, --default
           All operations apply to the Default ACL. Regular ACL entries in the input set are promoted to Default ACL
           entries. Default ACL entries in the input set are discarded. (A warning is issued if that happens).

       --restore=file
           Restore  a  permission backup created by `getfacl -R' or similar. All permissions of a complete directory
           subtree are restored using this mechanism. If the input contains owner comments or group  comments,  set‐
           facl  attempts  to restore the owner and owning group. If the input contains flags comments (which define
           the setuid, setgid, and sticky bits), setfacl sets those three bits  accordingly;  otherwise,  it  clears
           them. This option cannot be mixed with other options except `--test'.

       --test
           Test mode. Instead of changing the ACLs of any files, the resulting ACLs are listed.

       -R, --recursive
           Apply operations to all files and directories recursively. This option cannot be mixed with `--restore'.

       -L, --logical
           Logical walk, follow symbolic links to directories. The default behavior is to follow symbolic link argu‐
           ments, and skip symbolic links encountered in subdirectories.  Only effective  in  combination  with  -R.
           This option cannot be mixed with `--restore'.

       -P, --physical
           Physical  walk,  do  not  follow symbolic links to directories.  This also skips symbolic link arguments.
           Only effective in combination with -R.  This option cannot be mixed with `--restore'.

       -v, --version
           Print the version of setfacl and exit.

       -h, --help
           Print help explaining the command line options.

       --  End of command line options. All remaining parameters are interpreted as file names, even if  they  start
           with a dash.

       -   If the file name parameter is a single dash, setfacl reads a list of files from standard input.


   ACL ENTRIES
       The setfacl utility recognizes the following ACL entry formats (blanks inserted for clarity):


       [d[efault]:] [u[ser]:]uid [:perms]
              Permissions of a named user. Permissions of the file owner if uid is empty.

       [d[efault]:] g[roup]:gid [:perms]
              Permissions of a named group. Permissions of the owning group if gid is empty.

       [d[efault]:] m[ask][:] [:perms]
              Effective rights mask

       [d[efault]:] o[ther][:] [:perms]
              Permissions of others.

       Whitespace between delimiter characters and non-delimiter characters is ignored.

       Proper  ACL  entries  including permissions are used in modify and set operations. (options -m, -M, --set and
       --set-file).  Entries without the perms field are used for deletion of entries (options -x and -X).

       For uid and gid you can specify either a name or a number.

       The perms field is a combination of characters that indicate the permissions: read (r),  write  (w),  execute
       (x),  execute  only if the file is a directory or already has execute permission for some user (X).  Alterna‐
       tively, the perms field can be an octal digit (0-7).

   AUTOMATICALLY CREATED ENTRIES
       Initially, files and directories contain only the three base ACL entries for the owner, the group,  and  oth‐
       ers. There are some rules that need to be satisfied in order for an ACL to be valid:

       *   The  three  base  entries  cannot be removed. There must be exactly one entry of each of these base entry
           types.

       *   Whenever an ACL contains named user entries or named group objects, it must  also  contain  an  effective
           rights mask.

       *   Whenever  an  ACL  contains  any  Default ACL entries, the three Default ACL base entries (default owner,
           default group, and default others) must also exist.

       *   Whenever a Default ACL contains named user entries or named group objects, it must also contain a default
           effective rights mask.

       To help the user ensure these rules, setfacl creates entries from existing entries under the following condi‐
       tions:

       *   If an ACL contains named user or named group entries, and no mask entry exists, a mask  entry  containing
           the same permissions as the group entry is created. Unless the -n option is given, the permissions of the
           mask entry are further adjusted to include the union of all permissions affected by the mask entry.  (See
           the -n option description).

       *   If  a Default ACL entry is created, and the Default ACL contains no owner, owning group, or others entry,
           a copy of the ACL owner, owning group, or others entry is added to the Default ACL.

       *   If a Default ACL contains named user entries or named group entries, and no mask  entry  exists,  a  mask
           entry  containing  the  same permissions as the default Default ACL's group entry is added. Unless the -n
           option is given, the permissions of the mask entry are further adjusted to inclu de the union of all per‐
           missions affected by the mask entry. (See the -n option description).

EXAMPLES
       Granting an additional user read access
              setfacl -m u:lisa:r file

       Revoking write access from all groups and all named users (using the effective rights mask)
              setfacl -m m::rx file

       Removing a named group entry from a file's ACL
              setfacl -x g:staff file

       Copying the ACL of one file to another
              getfacl file1 | setfacl --set-file=- file2

       Copying the access ACL into the Default ACL
              getfacl --access dir | setfacl -d -M- dir

CONFORMANCE TO POSIX 1003.1e DRAFT STANDARD 17
       If  the  environment variable POSIXLY_CORRECT is defined, the default behavior of setfacl changes as follows:
       All non-standard options are disabled.  The ``default:'' prefix is disabled.  The  -x  and  -X  options  also
       accept permission fields (and ignore them).

AUTHOR
       Andreas Gruenbacher, <a.gruenbacher@bestbits.at>.

       Please send your bug reports, suggested features and comments to the above address.

SEE ALSO
       getfacl(1), chmod(1), umask(1), acl(5)



May 2000                                         ACL File Utilities                                       SETFACL(1)
