SETXKBMAP(1)                                   General Commands Manual                                  SETXKBMAP(1)



NAME
       setxkbmap - set the keyboard using the X Keyboard Extension

SYNOPSIS
       setxkbmap [ args ] [ layout [ variant [ option ...  ] ] ]

DESCRIPTION
       The  setxkbmap command maps the keyboard to use the layout determined by the options specified on the command
       line.

       An XKB keymap is constructed from a number of components which are compiled only as needed.  The  source  for
       all of the components can be found in /usr/share/X11/xkb.

OPTIONS
       -help   Prints a message describing the valid input to setxkbmap.

       -compat name
               Specifies the name of the compatibility map component used to construct a keyboard layout.

       -config file
               Specifies the name of an XKB configuration file which describes the keyboard to be used.

       -device device
               Specifies  the  numeric  device id of the input device to be updated with the new keyboard layout. If
               not specified, the core keyboard device of the X server is updated.

       -display display
               Specifies the display to be updated with the new keyboard layout.

       -geometry name
               Specifies the name of the geometry component used to construct a keyboard layout.

       -I directory
               Adds a directory to the list of directories to be used to search for specified layout or rules files.

       -keycodes name
               Specifies the name of the keycodes component used to construct a keyboard layout.

       -keymap name
               Specifies the name of the keymap description used to construct a keyboard layout.

       -layout name
               Specifies the name of the layout used to determine the components which make up the keyboard descrip‐
               tion.  The  -layout  option may only be used once. Multiple layouts can be specified as a comma-sepa‐
               rated list.

       -model name
               Specifies the name of the keyboard model used to determine the components which make up the  keyboard
               description.  Only one model may be specified on the command line.

       -option name
               Specifies  the  name of an option to determine the components which make up the keyboard description;
               multiple options may be specified, one per -option flag. Note that setxkbmap adds  options  specified
               in  the command line to the options that were set before (as saved in root window properties). If you
               want to replace all previously specified options, use the -option flag with an empty argument first.

       -print  With this option setxkbmap just prints component names in a format  acceptable  by  xkbcomp  (an  XKB
               keymap compiler) and exits. The option can be used for tests instead of a verbose option and in cases
               when one needs to run both the setxkbmap and the xkbcomp in chain (see below).

       -query  With this option setxkbmap just prints the current rules, model, layout, variant, and  options,  then
               exits.

       -rules file
               Specifies  the name of the rules file used to resolve the requested layout and model to a set of com‐
               ponent names.

       -symbols name
               Specifies the name of the symbols component used to construct a keyboard layout.

       -synch  Force synchronization for X requests.

       -types name
               Specifies the name of the types component used to construct a keyboard layout.

       -variant name
               Specifies which variant of the keyboard layout should be used to determine the components which  make
               up  the  keyboard  description.  The  -variant option may only be used once. Multiple variants can be
               specified as a comma-separated list and will be matched with the layouts specified with -layout.

       -verbose|-v [level]
               Specifies level of verbosity in output messages.  Valid levels range from 0  (least  verbose)  to  10
               (most  verbose).   The  default  verbosity level is 5.  If no level is specified, each -v or -verbose
               flag raises the level by 1.

USING WITH xkbcomp
       If you have an Xserver and a client shell running on different computers and XKB configuration files on those
       machines  are different you can get problems specifying a keyboard map by model, layout, options names.  This
       is because setxkbcomp converts these names to names of XKB configuration files according to files that are on
       the  client side computer, then it sends the file names to the server where the xkbcomp has to compose a com‐
       plete keyboard map using files which the server has.  Thus if the sets  of  files  differ  significantly  the
       names  that  the  setxkbmap  generates can be unacceptable on the server side.  You can solve this problem by
       running the xkbcomp on the client side too.  With the -print option setxkbmap just prints the file  names  in
       an  appropriate format to its stdout and this output can be piped directly to the xkbcomp input. For example,
       the command

       setxkbmap us -print | xkbcomp - $DISPLAY

       makes both steps run on the same (client) machine and loads a keyboard map into the server.

SEE ALSO
       xkbcomp(1), xkeyboard-config(7)

FILES
       /usr/share/X11/xkb



X Version 11                                       setxkbmap 1.3.0                                      SETXKBMAP(1)
