SHOWKEY(1)                                     General Commands Manual                                    SHOWKEY(1)



NAME
       showkey - examine the codes sent by the keyboard

SYNOPSIS
       showkey [-h|--help] [-a|--ascii] [-s|--scancodes] [-k|--keycodes]

DESCRIPTION
       showkey  prints  to  standard  output  either  the  scan codes or the keycode or the `ascii' code of each key
       pressed.  In the first two modes the program runs until 10 seconds have elapsed since the last key  press  or
       release  event,  or until it receives a suitable signal, like SIGTERM, from another process.  In `ascii' mode
       the program terminates when the user types ^D.

       When in scancode dump mode, showkey prints in hexadecimal format each byte received from the keyboard to  the
       standard  output.  A  new  line  is  printed  when  an interval of about 0.1 seconds occurs between the bytes
       received, or when the internal receive buffer fills up. This can be used  to  determine  roughly,  what  byte
       sequences  the  keyboard sends at once on a given key press. The scan code dumping mode is primarily intended
       for debugging the keyboard driver or other low level interfaces. As such it shouldn't be of much interest  to
       the regular end-user. However, some modern keyboards have keys or buttons that produce scancodes to which the
       kernel does not associate a keycode, and, after finding out what these are, the user can assign keycodes with
       setkeycodes(8).

       When  in  the default keycode dump mode, showkey prints to the standard output the keycode number or each key
       pressed or released. The kind of the event, press  or  release,  is  also  reported.   Keycodes  are  numbers
       assigned by the kernel to each individual physical key. Every key has always only one associated keycode num‐
       ber, whether the keyboard sends single or multiple scan codes when pressing it. Using showkey in  this  mode,
       you can find out what numbers to use in your personalized keymap files.

       When in `ascii' dump mode, showkey prints to the standard output the decimal, octal, and hexadecimal value(s)
       of the key pressed, according to he present keymap.

OPTIONS
       -h --help
              showkey prints to the standard error output its version number, a compile option  and  a  short  usage
              message, then exits.

       -s --scancodes
              Starts showkey in scan code dump mode.

       -k --keycodes
              Starts showkey in keycode dump mode. This is the default, when no command line options are present.

       -a --ascii
              Starts showkey in `ascii' dump mode.

2.6 KERNELS
       In 2.6 kernels key codes lie in the range 1-255, instead of 1-127.  Key codes larger than 127 are returned as
       three bytes of which the low order 7 bits are: zero, bits 13-7, and bits 6-0 of the key code.  The high order
       bits are: 0/1 for make/break, 1, 1.

       In  2.6  kernels  raw mode, or scancode mode, is not very raw at all.  Scan codes are first translated to key
       codes, and when scancodes are desired, the  key  codes  are  translated  back.  Various  transformations  are
       involved,  and  there  is no guarantee at all that the final result corresponds to what the keyboard hardware
       did send. So, if you want to know the scan codes sent by various keys it is better  to  boot  a  2.4  kernel.
       Since 2.6.9 there also is the boot option atkbd.softraw=0 that tells the 2.6 kernel to return the actual scan
       codes.

SEE ALSO
       loadkeys(1), dumpkeys(1), keymaps(5), setkeycodes(8)



                                                     1 Feb 1998                                           SHOWKEY(1)
