sldtoppm(1)                                    General Commands Manual                                   sldtoppm(1)



NAME
       sldtoppm - convert an AutoCAD slide file into a portable pixmap

SYNOPSIS
       sldtoppm [-adjust] [-dir] [-height|-ysize s] [-info] [-lib|-Lib name] [-scale s] [-verbose] [-width|-xsize s]
              [slidefile]

DESCRIPTION
       Reads an AutoCAD® slide file and outputs a portable pixmap.  If no slidefile is specified, input is read from
       standard  input.  The ppmdraw library is used to convert the vector and polygon information in the slide file
       to a pixmap; see the file ppmdraw.h for details on this package.

OPTIONS
       -adjust
              If the display on which the slide file was created had non-square pixels, when the slide is  processed
              with sldtoppm and the -adjust option is not present, the following warning will appear:
                Warning - pixels on source screen were non-square.
                Specifying -adjust will correct image width to compensate.
              Specifying  the  -adjust  option causes sldtoppm to scale the width of the image so that pixels in the
              resulting portable pixmap are square (and hence circles appear as true circles,  not  ellipses).   The
              scaling  is  performed  in  the  vector  domain, before scan converting the objects.  The results are,
              therefore, superior in appearance to what you'd obtain were you to perform the equivalent scaling with
              pnmscale after the bitmap had been created.

       -dir   The  input  is  assumed  to  be  an AutoCAD slide library file.  A directory listing each slide in the
              library is printed on standard error.

       -height size
              Scales the image in the vector domain so it is size pixels in height.  If no -width or  -xsize  option
              is specified, the width will be adjusted to preserve the pixel aspect ratio.

       -info  Dump  the  slide  file  header on standard error, displaying the original screen size and aspect ratio
              among other information.

       -lib name
              Extracts the slide with the given name from the slide library given as input.  The specified  name  is
              converted to upper case.

       -Lib name
              Extracts  the  slide  with  the  given  name  from the slide library given as input.  The name is used
              exactly as specified; it is not converted to upper case.

       -scale s
              Scales the image by factor s, which may be any floating point value greater  than  zero.   Scaling  is
              done  after  aspect ratio adjustment, if any.  Since scaling is performed in the vector domain, before
              rasterisation, the results look much better than running the output of sldtoppm through pnmscale.

       -verbose
              Dumps the slide file header and lists every vector and polygon in the file on standard error.

       -width size
              Scales the image in the vector domain so it is size pixels wide.  If no -height or  -ysize  option  is
              specified, the height will be adjusted to preserve the pixel aspect ratio.

       -xsize size
              Scales  the  image  in the vector domain so it is size pixels wide.  If no -height or -ysize option is
              specified, the height will be adjusted to preserve the pixel aspect ratio.

       -ysize size
              Scales the image in the vector domain so it is size pixels in height.  If no -width or  -xsize  option
              is specified, the width will be adjusted to preserve the pixel aspect ratio.

       All flags can be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.

BUGS
       Only Level 2 slides are converted.  Level 1 format has been obsolete since the advent of AutoCAD Release 9 in
       1987, and was not portable across machine architectures.

       Slide library items with names containing 8 bit (such as ISO) or 16 bit (Kanji, for example)  characters  may
       not  be  found  when chosen with the -lib option unless sldtoppm has been built with character set conversion
       functions appropriate to the locale.  You can always retrieve slides from libraries regardless of the charac‐
       ter  set  by using the -Lib option and specifying the precise name of library member.  Use the -dir option to
       list the slides in a library if you're unsure of the exact name.

SEE ALSO
       AutoCAD Reference Manual: Slide File Format, pnmscale(1), ppm(5)

AUTHOR
            John Walker
            Autodesk SA
            Avenue des Champs-Montants 14b
            CH-2074 MARIN
            Suisse/Schweiz/Svizzera/Svizra/Switzerland
            Usenet:  kelvin@Autodesk.com
            Fax:     038/33 88 15
            Voice:   038/33 76 33

       Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and with‐
       out fee is hereby granted, without any conditions or restrictions.  This software is provided ``as is'' with‐
       out express or implied warranty.

       AutoCAD and Autodesk are registered trademarks of Autodesk, Inc.



                                                   10 October 1991                                       sldtoppm(1)
