SPAM(1)                                        General Commands Manual                                       SPAM(1)



NAME
       spam - an SGML markup stream editor

       An  System Conforming to
       International Standard ISO 8879 —
       Standard Generalized Markup Language

SYNOPSIS
       spam  [  -ehilprvx  ]  [  -ccatalog_file ] [ -Ddirectory ] [ -ffile ] [ -mmarkup_option ] [ -oentity_name ] [
       -wwarning_type ] sysid...

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page may be out of date.  Consult the HTML documentation for the most up-to-date information con‐
       cerning this program.

       Spam  (SP  Add Markup) is an SGML markup stream editor implemented using the SP parser.  Spam parses the SGML
       document contained in sysid...  and copies to the standard output the portion of the document entity contain‐
       ing  the  document  instance, adding or changing markup as specified by the -m options.  The -p option can be
       used to include the SGML declaration and prolog in the output.  The -o option can be  used  to  output  other
       entities.  The -x option can be used to expand entity references.

       For more information about the underlying SGML parser and entity manager, see nsgmls(1).

       The following options are available:

       -cfile Use the catalog entry file file.

       -Ddirectory
              Search  directory  for  files  specified in system identifiers.  Multiple -D options are allowed.  See
              nsgmls(1) for more information about file searching.

       -e     Describe open entities in error messages.

       -ffile Redirect errors to file.  This is useful mainly with shells that do not support redirection of stderr.

       -h     Hoist omitted tags out from the start of internal entities.  If the text at the beginning of an inter‐
              nal  entity  causes  a  tag  to  be implied, the tag will usually be treated as being in that internal
              entity; this option will instead cause it to be treated as being in the  entity  that  referenced  the
              internal entity.  This option makes a difference in conjunction with -momittag or -x -x.

       -iname Pretend that

                     <!ENTITY % name "INCLUDE">

              occurs at the start of the document type declaration subset in the  document entity.

       -l     Prefer  lower-case.   Added  names  that  were subject to upper-case substitution will be converted to
              lower-case.

       -mmarkup_option
              Change the markup in the output according to the value of markup_option as follows:

              omittag
                     Add tags that were omitted using omitted tag minimization.  End tags that were omitted  because
                     the element has a declared content of EMPTY or an explicit content reference will not be added.

              shortref
                     Replace short references by named entity references.

              net    Change null end-tags into unminimized end-tags, and change net-enabling start-tags into unmini‐
                     mized start-tags.

              emptytag
                     Change empty tags into unminimized tags.

              unclosed
                     Change unclosed tags into unminimized tags.

              attname
                     Add omitted attribute names and vis.

              attvalue
                     Add literal delimiters omitted from attribute values.

              attspec
                     Add omitted attribute specifications.

              current
                     Add omitted attribute specifications for current attributes.  This option  is  implied  by  the
                     attspec option.

              shorttag
                     Equivalent to combination of net, emptytag, unclosed, attname, attvalue and attspec options.

              rank   Add omitted rank suffixes.

              reserved
                     Put reserved names in upper-case.

              ms     Remove  marked  section  declarations whose effective status is IGNORE, and replace each marked
                     section declaration whose effective status is INCLUDE by its marked section.  In  the  document
                     instance, empty comments will be added before or after the marked section declaration to ensure
                     that ignored record ends remain ignored.

              Multiple -m options are allowed.

       -oname Output the general entity name instead of the document entity.  The  output  will  correspond  to  the
              first time that the entity is referenced in content.

       -p     Output  the  part of the document entity containing the SGML declaration (if it was explicitly present
              in the document entity) and the prolog before anything else.  If this option is specified two or  more
              times,  then all entity references occurring between declarations in the prolog will be expanded; this
              includes the implicit reference to the entity containing the external subset of the DTD, if  there  is
              one.   Note that the SGML declaration will not be included if it was specified by an SGMLDECL entry in
              a catalog.

       -r     Don't perform any conversion on RSs and REs when outputting the entity.  The  entity  would  typically
              have the storage manager attribute records=asis.

       -v     Print the version number.

       -wtype Control warnings and errors according to type.  See nsgmls(1) for the allowed values of type.

       -x     Expand  references  to entities that are changed.  If this option is specified two or more times, then
              all references to entities that contain tags will be expanded.

BUGS
       Omitted tags are added at the point where they are implied by the SGML parser (except as modified by  the  -h
       option); this is often not quite where they are wanted.

       The case of general delimiters is not preserved.

       Incorrect  results  may  be produced if a variant concrete syntax is used which is such that there are delim‐
       iters in markup to be added that have a prefix that is a proper suffix of some other delimiter.

       If an entity reference in a default value uses the default entity and an entity  with  that  name  is  subse‐
       quently defined and that default value is added to the document instance, then the resulting document may not
       be equivalent to the original document.  Spam will give a warning when the first two conditions are met.

AUTHOR
       James Clark (jjc@jclark.com).

SEE ALSO
       nsgmls(1)



                                                                                                             SPAM(1)
