tabs(1)                                        General Commands Manual                                       tabs(1)



NAME
       tabs - set tabs on a terminal

SYNOPSIS
       tabs [options]] [tabstop-list]

DESCRIPTION
       The  tabs  program  clears  and  sets  tab-stops  on the terminal.  This uses the terminfo clear_all_tabs and
       set_tab capabilities.  If either is absent, tabs is unable to clear/set tab-stops.  The  terminal  should  be
       configured to use hard tabs, e.g.,

              stty tab0

OPTIONS
   General Options
       -Tname
            Tell  tabs which terminal type to use.  If this option is not given, tabs will use the $TERM environment
            variable.  If that is not set, it will use the ansi+tabs entry.

       -d   The debugging option shows a ruler line, followed by two data lines.  The  first  data  line  shows  the
            expected  tab-stops marked with asterisks.  The second data line shows the actual tab-stops, marked with
            asterisks.

       -n   This option tells tabs to check the options and run any debugging option, but not to modify the terminal
            settings.

       -V   reports the version of ncurses which was used in this program, and exits.

       The  tabs program processes a single list of tab stops.  The last option to be processed which defines a list
       is the one that determines the list to be processed.

   Implicit Lists
       Use a single number as an option, e.g., "-5" to set tabs at the given interval (in this case 1,  6,  11,  16,
       21, etc.).  Tabs are repeated up to the right margin of the screen.

       Use "-0" to clear all tabs.

       Use "-8" to set tabs to the standard interval.

   Explicit Lists
       An  explicit list can be defined after the options (this does not use a "-").  The values in the list must be
       in increasing numeric order, and greater than zero.  They are separated by a comma or a blank, for example,

              tabs 1,6,11,16,21
              tabs 1 6 11 16 21
       Use a '+' to treat a number as an increment relative to the previous value, e.g.,

              tabs 1,+5,+5,+5,+5
       which is equivalent to the 1,6,11,16,21 example.

   Predefined Tab-Stops
       X/Open defines several predefined lists of tab stops.

       -a   Assembler, IBM S/370, first format

       -a2  Assembler, IBM S/370, second format

       -c   COBOL, normal format

       -c2  COBOL compact format

       -c3  COBOL compact format extended

       -f   FORTRAN

       -p   PL/I

       -s   SNOBOL

       -u   UNIVAC 1100 Assembler

PORTABILITY
       X/Open describes a +m option, to set a terminal's left-margin.  Very few of the entries in the terminal data‐
       base provide this capability.

       The -d (debug) and -n (no-op) options are extensions not provided by other implementations.

       Documentation  for other implementations states that there is a limit on the number of tab stops.  While some
       terminals may not accept an arbitrary number of tab stops, this implementation will attempt to set tab  stops
       up to the right margin of the screen, if the given list happens to be that long.

SEE ALSO
       tset(1), infocmp(1), ncurses(3NCURSES), terminfo(5).

       This describes ncurses version 5.9 (patch 20140118).



                                                                                                             tabs(1)
