TANGLE(1)                                      General Commands Manual                                     TANGLE(1)



NAME
       tangle - translate WEB to Pascal

SYNOPSIS
       tangle [options] webfile[.web] [changefile[.ch]]

DESCRIPTION
       This  manual  page  is not meant to be exhaustive.  The complete documentation for this version of TeX can be
       found in the info file or manual Web2C: A TeX implementation.

       The tangle program converts a Web source document into a Pascal program that may be compiled in the usual way
       with  the  on-line  Pascal  compiler (e.g., pc(1)).  The output file is packed into lines of 72 characters or
       less, with the only concession to readability being the termination of lines at semicolons when this  can  be
       done conveniently.

       The  Web  language allows you to prepare a single document containing all the information that is needed both
       to produce a compilable Pascal program and to produce a well-formatted document describing the program in  as
       much  detail  as the writer may desire.  The user of Web must be familiar with both TeX and Pascal.  Web also
       provides a relatively simple, although adequate, macro facility that permits a Pascal program to  be  written
       in small easily-understood modules.

       The  command line should have either one or two names on it.  The first is taken as the Web file (and .web is
       added if there is no extension).  If there is another name, it is a change file (and .ch is added if there is
       no  extension).   The  change file overrides parts of the Web file, as described in the Web system documenta‐
       tion.

       The output files are a Pascal file and a string pool file, whose names are formed  by  adding  .p  and  .pool
       respectively to the root of the Web file name.

OPTIONS
       This  version  of  tangle  understands the following options.  Note that some of these options may render the
       output unsuitable for processing by a Pascal compiler.

       --help Print help message and exit.

       --length number
              Compare only the first number characters of identifiers when checking for collisions.  The default  is
              32, the original tangle used 7.

       --loose
              When  checking for collisions between identifiers, honor the settings of the --lowercase, --mixedcase,
              --uppercase, and --underline options. This is the default.

       --lowercase
              Convert all identifiers to lowercase.

       --mixedcase
              Retain the case of identifiers.  This is the default.

       --strict
              When checking for collisions between identifiers, strip underlines  and  convert  all  identifiers  to
              uppercase first.

       --underline
              Retain underlines (also known as underscores) in identifiers.

       --uppercase
              Convert all identifiers to uppercase.  This is the behaviour of the original tangle.

       --version
              Print version information and exit.

ENVIRONMENT
       The  environment variable WEBINPUTS is used to search for the input files, or the system default if WEBINPUTS
       is not set.  See tex(1) for the details of the searching.

SEE ALSO
       pc(1), pxp(1) (for formatting tangle output when debugging), tex(1).

       Donald E. Knuth, The Web System of Structured Documentation.

       Donald E. Knuth, Literate Programming, Computer Journal 27, 97-111, 1984.

       Wayne Sewell, Weaving a Program, Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1989, ISBN 0-442-31946-0.

       Donald E. Knuth, TeX for nroff: The Program (Volume B of Computers and  Typesetting),  Addison-Wesley,  1986,
       ISBN 0-201-13437-3.

       Donald  E.  Knuth,  Metafont: The Program (Volume D of Computers and Typesetting), Addison-Wesley, 1986, ISBN
       0-201-13438-1.

       These last two are by far the largest extant examples of Web programs.

       There is an active Internet electronic mail discussion list on the subject of literate  programming;  send  a
       subscription request to litprog-request@shsu.edu to join.

AUTHORS
       Web  was  designed by Donald E. Knuth, based on an earlier system called DOC (implemented by Ignacio Zabala).
       The tangle and weave programs are themselves written in Web. The system was  originally  ported  to  Unix  at
       Stanford by Howard Trickey, and at Cornell by Pavel Curtis.



Web2C 2013                                          1 March 2011                                           TANGLE(1)
