TASKSET(1)                                          User Commands                                         TASKSET(1)



NAME
       taskset - retrieve or set a process's CPU affinity

SYNOPSIS
       taskset [options] mask command [arg]...
       taskset [options] -p [mask] pid

DESCRIPTION
       taskset  is  used  to  set or retrieve the CPU affinity of a running process given its PID or to launch a new
       COMMAND with a given CPU affinity.  CPU affinity is a scheduler property that "bonds" a process  to  a  given
       set  of  CPUs  on the system.  The Linux scheduler will honor the given CPU affinity and the process will not
       run on any other CPUs.  Note that the Linux scheduler also  supports  natural  CPU  affinity:  the  scheduler
       attempts  to keep processes on the same CPU as long as practical for performance reasons.  Therefore, forcing
       a specific CPU affinity is useful only in certain applications.

       The CPU affinity is represented as a bitmask, with the lowest order bit corresponding to  the  first  logical
       CPU  and the highest order bit corresponding to the last logical CPU.  Not all CPUs may exist on a given sys‐
       tem but a mask may specify more CPUs than are present.  A retrieved mask will reflect only the bits that cor‐
       respond  to  CPUs  physically  on  the system.  If an invalid mask is given (i.e., one that corresponds to no
       valid CPUs on the current system) an error is returned.  The masks are typically given in  hexadecimal.   For
       example,

       0x00000001
              is processor #0

       0x00000003
              is processors #0 and #1

       0xFFFFFFFF
              is all processors (#0 through #31).

       When taskset returns, it is guaranteed that the given program has been scheduled to a legal CPU.

OPTIONS
       -a, --all-tasks
              Set or retrieve the CPU affinity of all the tasks (threads) for a given PID.

       -p, --pid
              Operate on an existing PID and do not launch a new task.

       -c, --cpu-list
              Specify  a numerical list of processors instead of a bitmask.  The numbers are separated by commas and
              may include ranges.  For example: 0,5,7,9-11.

       -h, --help
              Display usage information and exit.

       -V, --version
              Display version information and exit.

USAGE
       The default behavior is to run a new command with a given affinity mask:
              taskset mask command [arguments]

       You can also retrieve the CPU affinity of an existing task:
              taskset -p pid

       Or set it:
              taskset -p mask pid

PERMISSIONS
       A user must possess CAP_SYS_NICE to change the CPU affinity of a process.  Any user can retrieve the affinity
       mask.

AUTHOR
       Written by Robert M. Love.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2004 Robert M. Love
       This  is  free  software;  see  the  source  for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MER‐
       CHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

SEE ALSO
       chrt(1), nice(1), renice(1), sched_setaffinity(2), sched_getaffinity(2)

       See sched_setscheduler(2) for a description of the Linux scheduling scheme.

AVAILABILITY
       The  taskset  command  is  part  of  the  util-linux   package   and   is   available   from   ftp://ftp.ker‐
       nel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.



util-linux                                           April 2003                                           TASKSET(1)
