TBL(1)                                         General Commands Manual                                        TBL(1)



NAME
       tbl - format tables for troff

SYNOPSIS
       tbl [-Cv] [files ...]

DESCRIPTION
       This  manual  page  describes  the GNU version of tbl, which is part of the groff document formatting system.
       tbl compiles descriptions of tables embedded within troff input files into commands that  are  understood  by
       troff.   Normally, it should be invoked using the -t option of groff.  It is highly compatible with Unix tbl.
       The output generated by GNU tbl cannot be processed with Unix troff; it must be processed with GNU troff.  If
       no files are given on the command line or a filename of - is given, the standard input is read.

OPTIONS
       -C     Enable  compatibility mode to recognize .TS and .TE even when followed by a character other than space
              or newline.  Leader characters (\a) are handled as interpreted.

       -v     Print the version number.

USAGE
       tbl expects to find table descriptions wrapped in the .TS (table start) and .TE (table end) macros.

   Global options
       The line immediately following the .TS macro may contain any of the following global  options  (ignoring  the
       case  of  characters  –  Unix tbl only accepts options with all characters lowercase or all characters upper‐
       case), separated by spaces, tabs, or commas:

       allbox Enclose each item of the table in a box.

       box    Enclose the table in a box.

       center Center the table (default is left-justified).  The alternative keyword name centre is also  recognized
              (this is a GNU tbl extension).

       decimalpoint(c)
              Set the character to be recognized as the decimal point in numeric columns (GNU tbl only).

       delim(xy)
              Use x and y as start and end delimiters for eqn(1).

       doublebox
              Enclose the table in a double box.

       doubleframe
              Same as doublebox (GNU tbl only).

       expand Make  the table as wide as the current line length (providing a column separation factor).  Ignored if
              one or more `x' column specifiers are used (see below).

              In case the sum of the column widths is larger than the current line  length,  the  column  separation
              factor  is set to zero; such tables extend into the right margin, and there is no column separation at
              all.

       frame  Same as box (GNU tbl only).

       linesize(n)
              Set lines or rules (e.g. from box) in n-point type.

       nokeep Don't use diversions to prevent page breaks (GNU tbl only).  Normally tbl attempts to prevent undesir‐
              able  breaks  in boxed tables by using diversions.  This can sometimes interact badly with macro pack‐
              ages' own use of diversions, when footnotes, for example, are used.

       nospaces
              Ignore leading and trailing spaces in data items (GNU tbl only).

       nowarn Turn off warnings related to tables exceeding the current line width (GNU tbl only).

       tab(x) Use the character x instead of a tab to separate items in a line of input data.

       The global options must end with a semicolon.  There might be whitespace between an option and  its  argument
       in parentheses.

   Table format specification
       After  global  options  come  lines  describing  the format of each line of the table.  Each such format line
       describes one line of the table itself, except that the last format line (which you must end with  a  period)
       describes all remaining lines of the table.  A single-key character describes each column of each line of the
       table.  Key characters can be separated by spaces or tabs.  You may run format  specifications  for  multiple
       lines together on the same line by separating them with commas.

       You may follow each key character with specifiers that determine the font and point size of the corresponding
       item, that determine column width, inter-column spacing, etc.

       The longest format line defines the number of columns in the table; missing format descriptors at the end  of
       format  lines  are assumed to be L.  Extra columns in the data (which have no corresponding format entry) are
       ignored.

       The available key characters are:

       a,A    Center longest line in this column and then left-justifies all other lines in this column with respect
              to that centered line.  The idea is to use such alphabetic subcolumns (hence the name of the key char‐
              acter) in combination with L; they are called subcolumns because A items are indented by  1n  relative
              to L entries.  Example:

                     .TS
                     tab(;);
                     ln,an.
                     item one;1
                     subitem two;2
                     subitem three;3
                     .T&
                     ln,an.
                     item eleven;11
                     subitem twentytwo;22
                     subitem thirtythree;33
                     .TE

              Result:

                     item one                 1
                      subitem two             2
                      subitem three           3
                     item eleven             11
                      subitem twentytwo      22
                      subitem thirtythree    33

       c,C    Center item within the column.

       l,L    Left-justify item within the column.

       n,N    Numerically  justify  item in the column: Units positions of numbers are aligned vertically.  If there
              is one or more dots adjacent to a digit, use the rightmost one for vertical alignment.  If there is no
              dot,  use  the  rightmost  digit for vertical alignment; otherwise, center the item within the column.
              Alignment can be forced to a certain position using `\&'; if there is one or more  instances  of  this
              special  (non-printing)  character present within the data, use the leftmost one for alignment.  Exam‐
              ple:

                     .TS
                     n.
                     1
                     1.5
                     1.5.3
                     abcde
                     a\&bcde
                     .TE

              Result:

                       1
                       1.5
                     1.5.3
                      abcde
                       abcde

              If numerical entries are combined with L or R entries – this can happen if the table format is changed
              with  .T&  –,  center the widest number (of the data entered under the N specifier regime) relative to
              the widest L or R entry, preserving the alignment of  all  numerical  entries.   Contrary  to  A  type
              entries, there is no extra indentation.

              Using  equations (to be processed with eqn) within columns which use the N specifier is problematic in
              most cases due to tbl's algorithm for finding the vertical alignment, as described above.   Using  the
              global  delim  option,  however,  it is possible to make tbl ignore the data within eqn delimiters for
              that purpose.

       r,R    Right-justify item within the column.

       s,S    Span previous item on the left into this column.  Not allowed for the first column.

       ^      Span down entry from previous row in this column.  Not allowed for the first row.

       _,-    Replace this entry with a horizontal line.  Note that `_' and `-' can be used for table  fields  only,
              not for column separator lines.

       =      Replace  this  entry  with a double horizontal line.  Note that `=' can be used for table fields only,
              not for column separator lines.

       |      The corresponding column becomes a vertical rule (if two of these  are  adjacent,  a  double  vertical
              rule).

       A  vertical  bar  to  the left of the first key letter or to the right of the last one produces a line at the
       edge of the table.

       To change the data format within a table, use the .T& command (at the start of a line).  It  is  followed  by
       format and data lines (but no global options) similar to the .TS request.

   Column specifiers
       Here are the specifiers that can appear in suffixes to column key letters (in any order):

       b,B    Short form of fB (make affected entries bold).

       d,D    Start  an  item  that  vertically spans rows, using the `^' column specifier or `\^' data item, at the
              bottom of its range rather than vertically centering it (GNU tbl only).  Example:

                     .TS
                     tab(;) allbox;
                     l l
                     l ld
                     r ^
                     l rd.
                     0000;foobar
                     T{
                     1111
                     .br
                     2222
                     T};foo
                     r;
                     T{
                     3333
                     .br
                     4444
                     T};bar
                     \^;\^
                     .TE

              Result:

                     ┌─────┬────────┐
                     │0000 │ foobar │
                     ├─────┼────────┤
                     │1111 │        │
                     │2222 │        │
                     ├─────┤        │
                     │   r │ foo    │
                     ├─────┼────────┤
                     │3333 │        │
                     │4444 │    bar │
                     └─────┴────────┘
       e,E    Make equally-spaced columns.  All columns marked with this specifier get the same width; this  happens
              after the affected column widths have been computed (this means that the largest width value rules).

       f,F    Either  of  these  specifiers may be followed by a font name (either one or two characters long), font
              number (a single digit), or long name in parentheses (the last form is a GNU tbl extension).   A  one-
              letter font name must be separated by one or more blanks from whatever follows.

       i,I    Short form of fI (make affected entries italic).

       m,M    This  is  a GNU tbl extension.  Either of these specifiers may be followed by a macro name (either one
              or two characters long), or long name in parentheses.  A one-letter macro name must  be  separated  by
              one  or more blanks from whatever follows.  The macro which name can be specified here must be defined
              before creating the table.  It is called just before the table's cell text is output.  As  implemented
              currently, this macro is only called if block input is used, that is, text between `T{' and `T}'.  The
              macro should contain only simple troff requests to change the text block formatting, like text adjust‐
              ment,  hyphenation,  size, or font.  The macro is called after other cell modifications like b, f or v
              are output.  Thus the macro can overwrite other modification specifiers.

       p,P    Followed by a number, this does a point size change for the affected fields.  If signed,  the  current
              point size is incremented or decremented (using a signed number instead of a signed digit is a GNU tbl
              extension).  A point size specifier followed by a column separation number must be separated by one or
              more blanks.

       t,T    Start an item vertically spanning rows at the top of its range rather than vertically centering it.

       u,U    Move the corresponding column up one half-line.

       v,V    Followed by a number, this indicates the vertical line spacing to be used in a multi-line table entry.
              If signed, the current vertical line spacing is incremented or  decremented  (using  a  signed  number
              instead  of  a  signed digit is a GNU tbl extension).  A vertical line spacing specifier followed by a
              column separation number must be separated by one or more blanks.  No effect if the corresponding  ta‐
              ble entry isn't a text block.

       w,W    Minimum  column width value.  Must be followed either by a troff(1) width expression in parentheses or
              a unitless integer.  If no unit is given, en units are used.  Also used as the default line length for
              included  text  blocks.  If used multiple times to specify the width for a particular column, the last
              entry takes effect.

       x,X    An expanded column.  After computing all column widths without an x specifier, use the remaining  line
              width for this column.  If there is more than one expanded column, distribute the remaining horizontal
              space evenly among the affected columns (this is a GNU extension).  This feature has the  same  effect
              as specifying a minimum column width.

       z,Z    Ignore the corresponding column for width-calculation purposes, this is, don't use the fields but only
              the specifiers of this column to compute its width.

       A number suffix on a key character is interpreted as a column separation in en units (multiplied  in  propor‐
       tion if the expand option is on – in case of overfull tables this might be zero).  Default separation is 3n.

       The column specifier x is mutually exclusive with e and w (but e is not mutually exclusive with w); if speci‐
       fied multiple times for a particular column, the last entry takes effect: x unsets both e and w, while either
       e or w overrides x.

   Table data
       The  format  lines  are  followed by lines containing the actual data for the table, followed finally by .TE.
       Within such data lines, items are normally separated by tab characters (or the character specified  with  the
       tab  option).   Long input lines can be broken across multiple lines if the last character on the line is `\'
       (which vanishes after concatenation).

       Note that tbl computes the column widths line by line, applying \w on each entry which isn't  a  text  block.
       As a consequence, constructions like

              .TS
              c,l.
              \s[20]MM
              MMMM
              .TE

       fail; you must either say

              .TS
              cp20,lp20.
              MM
              MMMM
              .TE

       or

              .TS
              c,l.
              \s[20]MM
              \s[20]MMMM
              .TE

       A dot starting a line, followed by anything but a digit is handled as a troff command, passed through without
       changes.  The table position is unchanged in this case.

       If a data line consists of only `_' or `=', a single or double line, respectively, is drawn across the  table
       at  that  point; if a single item in a data line consists of only `_' or `=', then that item is replaced by a
       single or double line, joining its neighbours.  If a data item consists only of `\_' or  `\=',  a  single  or
       double line, respectively, is drawn across the field at that point which does not join its neighbours.

       A  data item consisting only of `\Rx' (`x' any character) is replaced by repetitions of character `x' as wide
       as the column (not joining its neighbours).

       A data item consisting only of `\^' indicates that the field immediately above spans downward over this row.

   Text blocks
       A text block can be used to enter data as a single entry which would be too long as a simple  string  between
       tabs.  It is started with `T{' and closed with `T}'.  The former must end a line, and the latter must start a
       line, probably followed by other data columns (separated with tabs or the character given with the tab global
       option).

       By default, the text block is formatted with the settings which were active before entering the table, possi‐
       bly overridden by the m, v, and w tbl specifiers.  For example, to make all text blocks ragged-right,  insert
       .na right before the starting .TS (and .ad after the table).

       If either `w' or `x' specifiers are not given for all columns of a text block span, the default length of the
       text block (to be more precise, the line length used to process the text  block  diversion)  is  computed  as
       L×C/(N+1), where `L' is the current line length, `C' the number of columns spanned by the text block, and `N'
       the total number of columns in the table.  Note, however, that the actual diversion width as returned in reg‐
       ister  \n[dl]  is used eventually as the text block width.  If necessary, you can also control the text block
       width with a direct insertion of a .ll request right after `T{'.

   Miscellaneous
       The number register \n[TW] holds the table width; it can't be used within the table  itself  but  is  defined
       right before calling .TE so that this macro can make use of it.

       tbl  also defines a macro .T# which produces the bottom and side lines of a boxed table.  While tbl does call
       this macro itself at the end of the table, it can be used by macro packages to create  boxes  for  multi-page
       tables  by  calling  it  within the page footer.  An example of this is shown by the -ms macros which provide
       this functionality if a table starts with .TS H instead of the standard call to the .TS macro.

INTERACTION WITH EQN
       tbl(1) should always be called before eqn(1) (groff(1) automatically takes care of the correct order of  pre‐
       processors).

GNU TBL ENHANCEMENTS
       There  is  no limit on the number of columns in a table, nor any limit on the number of text blocks.  All the
       lines of a table are considered in deciding column widths, not just the first 200.  Table continuation  (.T&)
       lines are not restricted to the first 200 lines.

       Numeric and alphabetic items may appear in the same column.

       Numeric and alphabetic items may span horizontally.

       tbl  uses  register, string, macro and diversion names beginning with the digit 3.  When using tbl you should
       avoid using any names beginning with a 3.

GNU TBL WITHIN MACROS
       Since tbl defines its own macros (right before each table) it is necessary to use  an  `end-of-macro'  macro.
       Additionally, the escape character has to be switched off.  Here an example.

              .eo
              .de ATABLE ..
              .TS
              allbox tab(;);
              cl.
              \$1;\$2
              .TE
              ...
              .ec
              .ATABLE A table
              .ATABLE Another table
              .ATABLE And "another one"

       Note,  however,  that  not all features of tbl can be wrapped into a macro because tbl sees the input earlier
       than troff.  For example, number formatting with vertically aligned decimal points fails if those numbers are
       passed  on  as macro parameters because decimal point alignment is handled by tbl itself: It only sees `\$1',
       `\$2', etc., and therefore can't recognize the decimal point.

BUGS
       You should use .TS H/.TH in conjunction with a supporting macro package for all multi-page boxed tables.   If
       there  is  no header that you wish to appear at the top of each page of the table, place the .TH line immedi‐
       ately after the format section.  Do not enclose a multi-page table within keep/release macros, or  divert  it
       in any other way.

       A text block within a table must be able to fit on one page.

       The bp request cannot be used to force a page-break in a multi-page table.  Instead, define BP as follows

              .de BP
              .  ie '\\n(.z'' .bp \\$1
              .  el \!.BP \\$1
              ..

       and use BP instead of bp.

       Using  \a  directly  in a table to get leaders does not work (except in compatibility mode).  This is correct
       behaviour: \a is an uninterpreted leader.  To get leaders use a real leader, either by using a control  A  or
       like this:

              .ds a \a
              .TS
              tab(;);
              lw(1i) l.
              A\*a;B
              .TE

       A leading and/or trailing `|' in a format line, such as

              |l r|.

       gives  output which has a 1n space between the resulting bordering vertical rule and the content of the adja‐
       cent column, as in

              .TS
              tab(#);
              |l r|.
              left column#right column
              .TE

       If it is desired to have zero space (so that the rule touches the content), this can be achieved by introduc‐
       ing extra “dummy” columns, with no content and zero separation, before and/or after, as in

              .TS
              tab(#);
              r0|l r0|l.
              #left column#right column#
              .TE

       The  resulting  “dummy”  columns are invisible and have zero width; note that such columns usually don't work
       with TTY devices.

REFERENCE
       Lesk, M.E.: "TBL – A Program to Format Tables".  For copyright reasons it cannot be  included  in  the  groff
       distribution, but copies can be found with a title search on the World Wide Web.

SEE ALSO
       groff(1), troff(1)



Groff Version 1.22.2                              07 February 2013                                            TBL(1)
