TEX(1)                                         General Commands Manual                                        TEX(1)



NAME
       tex, virtex, initex - text formatting and typesetting

SYNOPSIS
       tex [options] [&format] [file|\commands]

DESCRIPTION
       Run  the  TeX  typesetter  on file, usually creating file.dvi.  If the file argument has no extension, ".tex"
       will be appended to it.  Instead of a filename, a set of TeX commands can be given, the first of  which  must
       start  with a backslash.  With a &format argument TeX uses a different set of precompiled commands, contained
       in format.fmt; it is usually better to use the -fmt format option instead.

       TeX formats the interspersed text and commands contained in the named files and outputs a typesetter indepen‐
       dent file (called DVI, which is short for DeVice Independent).  TeX's capabilities and language are described
       in The TeX book.  TeX is normally used with a large body of precompiled macros, and there  are  several  spe‐
       cific formatting systems, such as LaTeX, which require the support of several macro files.

       This version of TeX looks at its command line to see what name it was called under.  If they exist, then both
       initex and virtex are symbolic links to the tex executable.  When called as initex (or when the  -ini  option
       is  given) it can be used to precompile macros into a .fmt file.  When called as virtex it will use the plain
       format.  When called under any other name, TeX will use that name as the name of  the  format  to  use.   For
       example,  when  called  as  tex the tex format is used, which is identical to the plain format.  The commands
       defined by the plain format are documented in The TeX book.  Other formats that are often  available  include
       latex and amstex.

       The  non-option  command line arguments to the TeX program are passed to it as the first input line.  (But it
       is often easier to type extended arguments as the first input line, since UNIX shells tend to  gobble  up  or
       misinterpret TeX's favorite symbols, like backslashes, unless you quote them.)  As described in The TeX book,
       that first line should begin with a filename, a \controlsequence, or a &formatname.

       The normal usage is to say
       tex paper
       to start processing paper.tex.  The name paper will be the ``jobname'', and is used in forming  output  file‐
       names.  If TeX doesn't get a filename in the first line, the jobname is texput.  When looking for a file, TeX
       looks for the name with and without the default extension (.tex) appended, unless the name  already  contains
       that  extension.  If paper is the ``jobname'', a log of error messages, with rather more detail than normally
       appears on the screen, will appear in paper.log, and the output file will be in paper.dvi.

       This version of TeX can look in the first line of the file paper.tex to see  if  it  begins  with  the  magic
       sequence %&.  If the first line begins with %&format -translate-file tcxname then TeX will use the named for‐
       mat and translation table tcxname to process the source file.  Either the format name or the  -translate-file
       specification  may  be omitted, but not both.  This overrides the format selection based on the name by which
       the program is invoked.  The -parse-first-line option or the parse_first_line configuration variable controls
       whether this behaviour is enabled.

       The  e response to TeX's error prompt causes the system default editor to start up at the current line of the
       current file.  The environment variable TEXEDIT can be used to change the editor  used.   It  may  contain  a
       string  with  "%s"  indicating  where the filename goes and "%d" indicating where the decimal line number (if
       any) goes.  For example, a TEXEDIT string for emacs can be set with the sh command
       TEXEDIT="emacs +%d %s"; export TEXEDIT

       A convenient file in the library is null.tex, containing nothing.  When TeX can't find a file it  thinks  you
       want  to  input,  it keeps asking you for another filename; responding `null' gets you out of the loop if you
       don't want to input anything.  You can also type your EOF character (usually control-D).

OPTIONS
       This version of TeX understands the following command line options.

       -enc   Enable the encTeX extensions.  This option is only effective in combination with -ini.  For documenta‐
              tion of the encTeX extensions see http://www.olsak.net/enctex.html.

       -file-line-error
              Print  error  messages  in  the form file:line:error which is similar to the way many compilers format
              them.

       -no-file-line-error
              Disable printing error messages in the file:line:error style.

       -file-line-error-style
              This is the old name of the -file-line-error option.

       -fmt format
              Use format as the name of the format to be used, instead of the name by which TeX was called or  a  %&
              line.

       -halt-on-error
              Exit with an error code when an error is encountered during processing.

       -help  Print help message and exit.

       -ini   Start  in  INI  mode, which is used to dump formats.  The INI mode can be used for typesetting, but no
              format is preloaded, and basic initializations like setting catcodes may be required.

       -interaction mode
              Sets the interaction mode.  The mode can be either batchmode, nonstopmode, scrollmode, and  errorstop‐
              mode.  The meaning of these modes is the same as that of the corresponding \commands.

       -ipc   Send DVI output to a socket as well as the usual output file.  Whether this option is available is the
              choice of the installer.

       -ipc-start
              As -ipc, and starts the server at the other end as well.  Whether this  option  is  available  is  the
              choice of the installer.

       -jobname name
              Use name for the job name, instead of deriving it from the name of the input file.

       -kpathsea-debug bitmask
              Sets path searching debugging flags according to the bitmask.  See the Kpathsea manual for details.

       -mktex fmt
              Enable mktexfmt, where fmt must be either tex or tfm.

       -mltex Enable MLTeX extensions.  Only effective in combination with -ini.

       -no-mktex fmt
              Disable mktexfmt, where fmt must be either tex or tfm.

       -output-comment string
              Use string for the DVI file comment instead of the date.

       -output-directory directory
              Write  output  files  in directory instead of the current directory.  Look up input files in directory
              first, then along the normal search path.  See also description of the TEXMFOUTPUT  environment  vari‐
              able.

       -parse-first-line
              If  the first line of the main input file begins with %& parse it to look for a dump name or a -trans‐
              late-file option.

       -no-parse-first-line
              Disable parsing of the first line of the main input file.

       -progname name
              Pretend to be program name.  This affects both the format used and the search paths.

       -recorder
              Enable the filename recorder.  This leaves a trace of the files opened for input and output in a  file
              with extension .fls.

       -shell-escape
              Enable the \write18{command} construct.  The command can be any shell command.  This construct is nor‐
              mally disallowed for security reasons.

       -no-shell-escape
              Disable the \write18{command} construct, even if it is enabled in the texmf.cnf file.

       -src-specials
              Insert source specials into the DVI file.

       -src-specials where
              Insert source specials in certain places of the DVI file.  where is a comma-separated value list:  cr,
              display, hbox, math, par, parent, or vbox.

       -translate-file tcxname
              Use  the  tcxname  translation  table  to set the mapping of input characters and re-mapping of output
              characters.

       -default-translate-file tcxname
              Like -translate-file except that a %& line can overrule this setting.

       -version
              Print version information and exit.

ENVIRONMENT
       See the Kpathsearch library documentation (the `Path specifications' node) for precise  details  of  how  the
       environment variables are used.  The kpsewhich utility can be used to query the values of the variables.

       One  caveat:  In  most  TeX formats, you cannot use ~ in a filename you give directly to TeX, because ~ is an
       active character, and hence is expanded, not taken as part of the filename.  Other programs,  such  as  Meta‐
       font, do not have this problem.

       TEXMFOUTPUT
              Normally,  TeX  puts  its  output files in the current directory.  If any output file cannot be opened
              there, it tries to open it in the directory specified in the environment variable TEXMFOUTPUT.   There
              is no default value for that variable.  For example, if you say tex paper and the current directory is
              not writable, if  TEXMFOUTPUT  has  the  value  /tmp,  TeX  attempts  to  create  /tmp/paper.log  (and
              /tmp/paper.dvi, if any output is produced.)  TEXMFOUTPUT is also checked for input files, as TeX often
              generates files that need to be subsequently read; for input, no suffixes (such as ``.tex'') are added
              by default, the input name is simply checked as given.

       TEXINPUTS
              Search  path  for  \input  and  \openin files.  This probably start with ``.'', so that user files are
              found before system files.  An empty path component will be replaced with the  paths  defined  in  the
              texmf.cnf  file.   For  example, set TEXINPUTS to ".:/home/user/tex:" to prepend the current directory
              and ``/home/user/tex'' to the standard search path.

       TEXFORMATS
              Search path for format files.

       TEXPOOL
              search path for tex internal strings.

       TEXEDIT
              Command template for switching to editor.  The default, usually vi, is set when TeX is compiled.

       TFMFONTS
              Search path for font metric (.tfm) files.

FILES
       The location of the files mentioned below varies from system to system.  Use the kpsewhich  utility  to  find
       their locations.

       texmf.cnf
              Configuration  file.  This contains definitions of search paths as well as other configuration parame‐
              ters like parse_first_line.

       tex.pool
              Text file containing TeX's internal strings.

       texfonts.map
              Filename mapping definitions.

       *.tfm  Metric files for TeX's fonts.

       *.fmt  Predigested TeX format (.fmt) files.

       $TEXMFMAIN/tex/plain/base/plain.tex
              The basic macro package described in the TeX book.

NOTES
       This manual page is not meant to be exhaustive.  The complete documentation for this version of  TeX  can  be
       found in the info manual Web2C: A TeX implementation.

BUGS
       This  version  of TeX implements a number of optional extensions.  In fact, many of these extensions conflict
       to a greater or lesser extent with the definition of TeX.  When  such  extensions  are  enabled,  the  banner
       printed when TeX starts is changed to print TeXk instead of TeX.

       This  version  of TeX fails to trap arithmetic overflow when dimensions are added or subtracted.  Cases where
       this occurs are rare, but when it does the generated DVI file will be invalid.

SEE ALSO
       mf(1),
       Donald E. Knuth, The TeX book, Addison-Wesley, 1986, ISBN 0-201-13447-0.
       Leslie Lamport, LaTeX - A Document Preparation System, Addison-Wesley, 1985, ISBN 0-201-15790-X.
       K. Berry, Eplain: Expanded plain TeX, ftp://ftp.cs.umb.edu/pub/tex/eplain/doc.
       Michael Spivak, The Joy of TeX , 2nd edition, Addison-Wesley, 1990, ISBN 0-8218-2997-1.
       TUGboat (the journal of the TeX Users Group).

TRIVIA
       TeX, pronounced properly, rhymes with ``blecchhh.''  The proper spelling in typewriter-like fonts is  ``TeX''
       and not ``TEX'' or ``tex.''

AUTHORS
       TeX  was  designed  by  Donald E. Knuth, who implemented it using his Web system for Pascal programs.  It was
       ported to Unix at Stanford by Howard Trickey, and at Cornell by Pavel Curtis.  The version now  offered  with
       the  Unix  TeX  distribution  is  that  generated by the Web to C system (web2c), originally written by Tomas
       Rokicki and Tim Morgan.

       The encTeX extensions were written by Petr Olsak.



Web2C 2013                                          1 March 2011                                              TEX(1)
