texconfig(1)                                          TeX Live                                          texconfig(1)



NAME
       texconfig - configures teTeX or TeX Live

       texconfig-sys - configures teTeX or TeX Live system-wide

SYNOPSIS
       texconfig

       texconfig [ commands ...]

       texconfig-sys

DESCRIPTION
       texconfig  allows  one  to  configure and maintain TeX in an easy and convenient manner, offering a series of
       dialog boxes to the user.

       The tlmgr program has subsumed this function for TeX Live.  This program is still supported,  but  the  tlmgr
       interface is much more actively developed and tested.

       After  choosing settings or options, the appropriate files are changed automatically and the new settings are
       applied for the user.  If needed, copies of files in TEXMFDIST or TEXMFMAIN will be made in the user's TEXMF‐
       CONFIG tree.

       texconfig  uses either the whiptail(1) or dialog(1) program to communicate with the user, so must be run in a
       terminal.

       For making system-wide changes, which will apply to all users of TeX (for example, default paper size and  so
       on),  run texconfig-sys instead.  Changed or generated files will be placed in TEXMFSYSCONFIG.  (You may need
       to be root to do this.)

       Note that on a Debian system, changes to formats, font  setup,  hyphenation  for  different  languages,  etc.
       should not be done with texconfig, because fmtutil.cnf(5), updmap.cfg(5), texmf.cnf and language.dat are gen‐
       erated files in Debian.  See  TeX-on-Debian.pdf,  TeX-on-Debian.txt.gz  or  TeX-on-Debian.html/index.html  in
       /usr/share/doc/tex-common/ for alternatives.

       texconfig also offers a non-interactive batch mode which can be accessed with the following commands

COMMANDS
       Commands  that accept further options usually display available options if called without them.  For example,
       texconfig dvipdfm paper will inform about valid paper settings.

       conf   Display the system configuration.

       dvipdfm paper [letter|legal|ledger|tabloid|a4|a3]
              Set up dvipdfm to use papersize PAPER by default.

       dvips add PRINTERNAME
              Create a new (empty) configuration file TEXMFCONFIG/dvips/config/config.PRINTERNAME.   This  file  can
              later be filled with the mode, offset or printcmd options

       dvips del PRINTERNAME
              Remove config.PRINTERNAME

       dvips mode
              List available MetaFont modes.

       dvips [-P PRINTER] mode MODE
              Change  the  MetaFont mode to MODE for PRINTER or for all output files (config.ps), if no -P option is
              given.

       dvips [-P PRINTER] offset x-OFFSET,y-OFFSET
              Set printer offset for PRINTER or for all output files (config.ps), if no -P option is given.  Offsets
              must  be given with units, e.g.  0pt,10pt You can use testpage.tex from the LaTeX distribution to find
              these numbers.

       dvips [-P PRINTER] printcmd CMD
              Set the printing command for PRINTER or for all output files (config.ps), if no -P  option  is  given.
              Commands  might  be  lp or lpr.  See the description of the o option in info dvips or the -O option in
              dvips(1).

       faq    Display the list of Frequently Asked Questions about teTeX (and their answers).

       font vardir DIR, font ro, font rw
              These options should not be used on a Debian system unless you really know what you  are  doing.   For
              details,  look  at  the  output  of texconfig fonts and read section 2.5, font caching, in the TeX-on-
              Debian documentation in /usr/share/doc/tex-common/.

       formats
              This command allows to edit fmtutil.cnf(5) and (re)creates any new or changed formats afterwards.   It
              should  not  be used on Debian systems, unless you want to temporarily create and test a specific for‐
              mat, because fmtutil.cnf(5) is a generated file in Debian,  and  changes  will  be  overwritten.   See
              update-fmtutil for details.

       hyphen FORMAT
              This  command  allows  to  edit  the hyphenation configuration file for formats that support this, and
              recreates the formats afterwards to enable the new languages.  Available formats  are  shown  when  no
              FORMAT is given.

              Note that for formats that use LaTeX's language.dat,
               e.g.   (pdf)jadetex  and  latex itself, this change is not persistent, since this file is a generated
              file.  You should not use this command in these cases, read update-language(1) for alternatives.

       init [format]
              Recreate format or all formats if none is given, and the font information.  This is the same as  call‐
              ing fmtutil --byfmt format or fmtutil --all, respectively, followed by updmap.

       mode-list
              List  available printer modes, together with the printers they were developed for, and their DPI reso‐
              lution

       mode MODE
              Set the default printer mode in /etc/texmf/web2c/mktex.cnf or the respective user file  in  $TEXMFCON‐
              FIG/web2c to MODE.

       paper [a4|letter]
              Set  the default papersize for dvips, dvipdfm, pdftex and xdvi.  The set is restricted because not all
              programs understand all sizes.

       pdftex paper [a4|letter]
              Set the default paper size for pdftex.

       rehash Call mktexlsr.

       xdvi paper PAPER
              Set the default paper size for xdvi.  The (long) list is available with texconfig xdvi paper.


ENVIRONMENT
       To let you change files, texconfig will open the editor specified in the VISUAL or EDITOR variables, or  sen‐
       sible-editor if both are unset.

SEE ALSO
       whiptail(1), dialog(1), tlmgr(1), tex(1), mf(1), vi(1), EDITOR environment variable.

AUTHOR
       Thomas Esser



TeX Live                                             August 2011                                        texconfig(1)
