TFTOPL(1)                                      General Commands Manual                                     TFTOPL(1)



NAME
       tftopl - convert TeX font metric (tfm) files to property lists

SYNOPSIS
       tftopl [OPTIONS] tfm_name[.tfm] [pl_name[.pl]]

DESCRIPTION
       This  manual  page  is not meant to be exhaustive.  The complete documentation for this version of TeX can be
       found in the info file or manual Web2C: A TeX implementation.

       The tftopl program translates a (program-oriented) font metric file to a (human-oriented) property list file.
       Thus,  you can edit the contents of the TFM files, if the font designer has not done his or her job properly,
       or if you're encountering strange difficulties, or if you're just curious.  It also serves as a TFM-file val‐
       idating program, i.e., if no error messages are given, the input file is correct.

       The  pl_name  is  extended  with .pl if it lacks a suffix.  If pl_name is not given, standard output is used.
       Likewise, tfm_name is extended with .tfm if it lacks a suffix.  Also, path searching is done for the TFM file
       using the environment variable TEXFONTS.  If that is not set, tftopl uses the system default.

       See tex(1) for the details of the searching.

OPTIONS
       -charcode-format=format
              The argument format specifies how character codes are output in the PL file.  By default, only letters
              and digits are output using the C integer code (i.e., in ASCII);  the  others  are  output  in  octal.
              (Unless  the  font's coding scheme starts with TeX math sy or TeX math ex, in which case all character
              codes are output in octal.)  If format is ascii, all character codes that correspond to graphic  char‐
              acters, besides the left and right parentheses, are output in ASCII.  Finally, if format is octal, all
              character codes are output in octal.

       -verbose
              Without this option, tftopl operates silently.  With it, a banner and progress report are  printed  on
              stdout.

SEE ALSO
       pltotf(1),
       Donald E. Knuth, TeX for nroffware.
       Donald  E.  Knuth,  The  Metafontbook  (Volume  C  of  Computers and Typesetting), Addison-Wesley, 1986, ISBN
       0-201-13445-4.

AUTHORS
       Donald E. Knuth wrote the program. It was published as part of the TeX for nroffware technical report, avail‐
       able from the TeX Users Group.  Howard Trickey and Pavel Curtis originally ported it to Unix.



Web2C 2013                                        17 December 1994                                         TFTOPL(1)
