tic(1)                                         General Commands Manual                                        tic(1)



NAME
       tic - the terminfo entry-description compiler

SYNOPSIS
       tic [-01CDGIKLNTUVacfgrstx] [-e names] [-o dir] [-R subset] [-v[n]] [-w[n]] file

DESCRIPTION
       The  tic  command translates a terminfo file from source format into compiled format.  The compiled format is
       necessary for use with the library routines in ncurses(3NCURSES).

       As described in term(5), the database may be either a directory tree (one  file  per  terminal  entry)  or  a
       hashed  database  (one record per entry).  The tic command writes only one type of entry, depending on how it
       was built:

       ·   For directory trees, the top-level directory, e.g., /usr/share/terminfo, specifies the  location  of  the
           database.

       ·   For  hashed  databases,  a  filename  is needed.  If the given file is not found by that name, but can be
           found by adding the suffix ".db", then that is used.

           The default name for the hashed database is the same as the default directory name (only adding  a  ".db"
           suffix).

       In  either  case  (directory  or hashed database), tic will create the container if it does not exist.  For a
       directory, this would be the "terminfo" leaf, versus a "terminfo.db" file.

       The results are normally placed in  the  system  terminfo  database  /etc/terminfo.   The  compiled  terminal
       description can be placed in a different terminfo database.  There are two ways to achieve this:

       ·   First, you may override the system default either by using the -o option, or by setting the variable TER‐
           MINFO in your shell environment to a valid database location.

       ·   Secondly, if tic cannot write in /etc/terminfo or the location specified using your TERMINFO variable, it
           looks for the directory $HOME/.terminfo (or hashed database $HOME/.terminfo.db); if that location exists,
           the entry is placed there.

       Libraries that read terminfo entries are expected to check in succession

       ·   a location specified with the TERMINFO environment variable,

       ·   $HOME/.terminfo,

       ·   directories listed in the TERMINFO_DIRS environment variable,

       ·   a compiled-in list of directories (no default value), and

       ·   the system terminfo database (/etc/terminfo).

   OPTIONS
       -0     restricts the output to a single line

       -1     restricts the output to a single column

       -a     tells tic to retain commented-out capabilities rather than discarding  them.   Capabilities  are  com‐
              mented  by prefixing them with a period.  This sets the -x option, because it treats the commented-out
              entries as user-defined names.  If the source is termcap, accept the  2-character  names  required  by
              version 6.  Otherwise these are ignored.

       -C     Force  source  translation  to termcap format.  Note: this differs from the -C option of infocmp(1) in
              that it does not merely translate capability names, but also translates terminfo  strings  to  termcap
              format.   Capabilities  that are not translatable are left in the entry under their terminfo names but
              commented out with two preceding dots.  The actual format  used  incorporates  some  improvements  for
              escaped  characters  from  terminfo  format.   For  a  stricter BSD-compatible translation, add the -K
              option.

       -c     tells tic to only check file for errors, including syntax problems and bad use links.  If you  specify
              -C  (-I) with this option, the code will print warnings about entries which, after use resolution, are
              more than 1023 (4096) bytes long.  Due to a fixed buffer length in older termcap libraries, as well as
              buggy  checking  for  the  buffer length (and a documented limit in terminfo), these entries may cause
              core dumps with other implementations.

       -D     tells tic to print the database locations that it knows about, and exit.  The first location shown  is
              the one to which it would write compiled terminal descriptions.  If tic is not able to find a writable
              database location according to the rules summarized above, it will print a diagnostic and exit with an
              error rather than printing a list of database locations.

       -e names
              Limit  writes  and  translations  to  the following comma-separated list of terminals.  If any name or
              alias of a terminal matches one of the names in the list, the entry will be written or  translated  as
              normal.  Otherwise no output will be generated for it.  The option value is interpreted as a file con‐
              taining the list if it contains a '/'.  (Note: depending on how tic  was  compiled,  this  option  may
              require -I or -C.)

       -f     Display  complex  terminfo strings which contain if/then/else/endif expressions indented for readabil‐
              ity.

       -G     Display constant literals in decimal form rather than their character equivalents.

       -g     Display constant character literals in quoted form rather than their decimal equivalents.

       -I     Force source translation to terminfo format.

       -K     Suppress some longstanding ncurses extensions to termcap format, e.g., "\s" for space.

       -L     Force source translation to terminfo format using the long C variable names listed in <term.h>

       -N     Disable smart defaults.  Normally, when translating from termcap to terminfo,  the  compiler  makes  a
              number  of  assumptions about the defaults of string capabilities reset1_string, carriage_return, cur‐
              sor_left, cursor_down, scroll_forward, tab,  newline,  key_backspace,  key_left,  and  key_down,  then
              attempts  to  use obsolete termcap capabilities to deduce correct values.  It also normally suppresses
              output of obsolete termcap capabilities such as bs.  This option forces  a  more  literal  translation
              that also preserves the obsolete capabilities.

       -odir  Write compiled entries to given database location.  Overrides the TERMINFO environment variable.

       -Rsubset
              Restrict  output  to  a  given  subset.  This option is for use with archaic versions of terminfo like
              those on SVr1, Ultrix, or HP/UX that do not support the full set of SVR4/XSI Curses terminfo; and out‐
              right  broken ports like AIX 3.x that have their own extensions incompatible with SVr4/XSI.  Available
              subsets are "SVr1", "Ultrix", "HP", "BSD" and "AIX"; see terminfo(5) for details.

       -r     Force entry resolution (so there are no remaining tc capabilities)  even  when  doing  translation  to
              termcap format.  This may be needed if you are preparing a termcap file for a termcap library (such as
              GNU termcap through version 1.3 or BSD termcap through 4.3BSD) that does not handle multiple tc  capa‐
              bilities per entry.

       -s     Summarize  the compile by showing the database location into which entries are written, and the number
              of entries which are compiled.

       -T     eliminates size-restrictions on the generated text.  This is mainly useful for testing  and  analysis,
              since the compiled descriptions are limited (e.g., 1023 for termcap, 4096 for terminfo).

       -t     tells  tic to discard commented-out capabilities.  Normally when translating from terminfo to termcap,
              untranslatable capabilities are commented-out.

       -U   tells tic to not post-process the data after parsing the source file.  Normally, it infers data which is
            commonly missing in older terminfo data, or in termcaps.

       -V   reports the version of ncurses which was used in this program, and exits.

       -vn  specifies  that  (verbose) output be written to standard error trace information showing tic's progress.
            The optional parameter n is a number from 1 to 10, inclusive, indicating the desired level of detail  of
            information.   If n is omitted, the default level is 1.  If n is specified and greater than 1, the level
            of detail is increased.

            The debug flag levels are as follows:

            1      Names of files created and linked

            2      Information related to the “use” facility

            3      Statistics from the hashing algorithm

            5      String-table memory allocations

            7      Entries into the string-table

            8      List of tokens encountered by scanner

            9      All values computed in construction of the hash table

            If the debug level n is not given, it is taken to be one.

       -wn  specifies the width of the output.  The parameter is optional.  If it is omitted, it defaults to 60.

       -x   Treat unknown capabilities as user-defined.  That is, if you supply a capability name which tic does not
            recognize, it will infer its type (boolean, number or string) from the syntax and make an extended table
            entry for that.  User-defined capability strings whose name begins with  “k”  are  treated  as  function
            keys.

   PARAMETERS
       file   contains one or more terminfo terminal descriptions in source format [see terminfo(5)].  Each descrip‐
              tion in the file describes the capabilities of a particular terminal.

              If file is “-”, then the data is read from the standard input.  The file parameter  may  also  be  the
              path of a character-device.

   PROCESSING
       All  but  one  of the capabilities recognized by tic are documented in terminfo(5).  The exception is the use
       capability.

       When a use=entry-name field is discovered in a terminal entry currently being  compiled,  tic  reads  in  the
       binary  from /etc/terminfo to complete the entry.  (Entries created from file will be used first.  tic dupli‐
       cates the capabilities in entry-name for the current entry, with the exception  of  those  capabilities  that
       explicitly are defined in the current entry.

       When  an  entry,  e.g.,  entry_name_1,  contains  a  use=entry_name_2  field,  any  canceled  capabilities in
       entry_name_2 must also appear  in  entry_name_1  before  use=  for  these  capabilities  to  be  canceled  in
       entry_name_1.

       Total  compiled  entries  cannot  exceed 4096 bytes.  The name field cannot exceed 512 bytes.  Terminal names
       exceeding the maximum alias length (32 characters on systems with long filenames,  14  characters  otherwise)
       will be truncated to the maximum alias length and a warning message will be printed.

COMPATIBILITY
       There  is  some  evidence  that historic tic implementations treated description fields with no whitespace in
       them as additional aliases or short names.  This tic does not do that, but  it  does  warn  when  description
       fields may be treated that way and check them for dangerous characters.

EXTENSIONS
       Unlike  the  SVr4 tic command, this implementation can actually compile termcap sources.  In fact, entries in
       terminfo and termcap syntax can be mixed in a single source file.  See terminfo(5) for the  list  of  termcap
       names taken to be equivalent to terminfo names.

       The SVr4 manual pages are not clear on the resolution rules for use capabilities.  This implementation of tic
       will find use targets anywhere in the source file, or anywhere in the file tree rooted at TERMINFO  (if  TER‐
       MINFO  is  defined),  or  in the user's $HOME/.terminfo database (if it exists), or (finally) anywhere in the
       system's file tree of compiled entries.

       The error messages from this tic have the same format as GNU C error messages,  and  can  be  parsed  by  GNU
       Emacs's compile facility.

       The -0, -1, -C, -G, -I, -N, -R, -T, -V, -a, -e, -f, -g, -o, -r, -s, -t and -x options are not supported under
       SVr4.  The SVr4 -c mode does not report bad use links.

       System V does not compile entries to or read entries from your $HOME/.terminfo database  unless  TERMINFO  is
       explicitly set to it.

FILES
       /etc/terminfo/?/*
            Compiled terminal description database.

SEE ALSO
       infocmp(1), captoinfo(1), infotocap(1), toe(1), ncurses(3NCURSES), term(5).  terminfo(5).

       This describes ncurses version 5.9 (patch 20140118).

AUTHOR
       Eric S. Raymond <esr@snark.thyrsus.com> and
       Thomas E. Dickey <dickey@invisible-island.net>



                                                                                                              tic(1)
