tifftopnm(1)                                   General Commands Manual                                  tifftopnm(1)



NAME
       tifftopnm - convert a TIFF file into a portable anymap


SYNOPSIS
       tifftopnm [-alphaout={alpha-filename,-}] [-headerdump] [-respectfillorder] [tiff-filename]

       You  may  abbreviate  any  option  to  its shortest unique prefix.  You may use two hyphens instead of one in
       options.  You may separate an option and its value either by an equals sign or white space.


DESCRIPTION
       Reads a TIFF file as input.  Produces a portable anymap as output.  The type of the output  file  depends  on
       the input file - if it's black & white, generates a pbm file; if it's grayscale, generates a pgm file; other‐
       wise, a ppm file.  The program tells you which type it is writing.

       This program cannot read every possible TIFF file -- there are myriad variations of the  TIFF  format.   How‐
       ever,  it  does  understand  monochrome  and  gray scale, RGB, RGBA (red/green/blue with alpha channel), CMYK
       (Cyan-Magenta-Yellow-Black ink color separation), and color palette TIFF files.  An RGB file can have  either
       single  plane  (interleaved)  color  or  multiple  plane format.  The program reads 1-8 and 16 bit-per-sample
       input, the latter in either bigendian or littlendian encoding.  Tiff directory information may also be either
       bigendian or littendian.

       One  reason  this program isn't as general as TIFF programs often are is that it does not use the TIFFRGBAIm‐
       ageGet() function of the TIFF library to read TIFF files.  Rather, it uses the more  primitive  TIFFReadScan‐
       Line() function and decodes it itself.

       There is no fundamental reason that this program could not read other kinds of TIFF files; the existing limi‐
       tations are mainly because no one has asked for more.

       The PNM output has the same maxval as the Tiff input, except that if the Tiff  input  is  colormapped  (which
       implies  a  maxval of 65535) the PNM output has a maxval of 255.  Though this may result in lost information,
       such input images hardly ever actually have more color resolution than a maxval of 255  provides  and  people
       often  cannot  deal  with  PNM  files that have maxval > 255.  By contrast, a non-colormapped Tiff image that
       doesn't need a maxval > 255 doesn't have a maxval > 255, so when we see a non-colormapped maxval  >  255,  we
       take it seriously and produce a matching output maxval.

       The  tiff-filename argument names the regular file that contains the Tiff image.  If you specify "-" or don't
       specify this argument, tfftopnm uses Standard Input. In either case, the file must be seekable.   That  means
       no pipe, but any regular file is fine.


OPTIONS
       -alphaout=alpha-filename
              tifftopnm  creates  a  PGM  (portable  graymap)  file containing the alpha channel values in the input
              image.  If the input image doesn't contain an alpha channel, the alpha-filename file contains all zero
              (transparent)  alpha  values.   If  you  don't specify -alphaout, tifftopnm does not generate an alpha
              file, and if the input image has an alpha channel, tifftopnm simply discards it.

              If you specify - as the filename, tifftopnm writes the alpha output to Standard  Output  and  discards
              the image.

              See pnmcomp(1) for one way to use the alpha output file.

       -respectfillorder
              By  default,  tifftopnm  ignores the "fillorder" tag in the TIFF input, which means it may incorrectly
              interpret the image.  To make it follow the spec, use this option.  For a lengthy but engaging discus‐
              sion of why tifftopnm works this way and how to use the -respectfillorder option, see the note on fil‐
              lorder below.


       -headerdump
              Dump TIFF file information to stderr.  This information may be useful in debugging TIFF  file  conver‐
              sion problems.

       All options can be abbreviated to their shortest unique prefix.


NOTES
   Fillorder
       There  is  a  piece  of information in the header of a TIFF image called "fillorder."  The TIFF specification
       quite clearly states that this value tells the order in which bits are arranged in a byte in the  description
       of the image's pixels.  There are two options, assuming that the image has a format where more than one pixel
       can be represented by a single byte: 1) the byte is filled from most signficant bit to least  signficant  bit
       going left to right in the image; and 2) the opposite.

       However,  there  is  confusion  in the world as to the meaning of fillorder.  Evidence shows that some people
       believe it has to do with byte order when a single value is represented by two bytes.

       These people cause TIFF images to be created that, while they use a MSB-to-LSB fillorder,  have  a  fillorder
       tag that says they used LSB-to-MSB.  A program that properly interprets a TIFF image will not end up with the
       image that the author intended in this case.

       For a long time, tifftopnm did not understand fillorder itself  and  assumed  the  fillorder  was  MSB-to-LSB
       regardless  of  the fillorder tag in the TIFF header.  And as far as I know, there is no legitimate reason to
       use a fillorder other than MSB-to-LSB.  So users of tifftopnm were happily using those TIFF images  that  had
       incorrect fillorder tags.

       So  that  those  users can continue to be happy, tifftopnm today continues to ignore the fillorder tag unless
       you tell it not to.  (It does, however, warn you when the fillorder tag does not say MSB-to-LSB that the  tag
       is being ignored).

       If  for  some reason you have a TIFF image that actually has LSB-to-MSB fillorder, and its fillorder tag cor‐
       rectly indicates that, you must use the -respectfillorder option on tifftopnm to get proper results.

       Examples of incorrect TIFF images are at ftp://weather.noaa.gov.  They are apparently created  by  a  program
       called faxtotiff.

       This note was written on January 1, 2002.



SEE ALSO
       pnmtotiff(1), pnmtotiffcmyk(1), pnmcomp(1), pnm(5)

AUTHOR
       Derived  by  Jef  Poskanzer  from  tif2ras.c,  which is Copyright (c) 1990 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.  Author:
       Patrick J. Naughton (naughton@wind.sun.com).



                                                    02 April 2000                                       tifftopnm(1)
