toe(1)                                         General Commands Manual                                        toe(1)



NAME
       toe - table of (terminfo) entries

SYNOPSIS
       toe [-v[n]] [-ahsuUV] file...

DESCRIPTION
       With  no  options,  toe lists all available terminal types by primary name with descriptions.  File arguments
       specify the directories to be scanned; if no such arguments are given, your  default  terminfo  directory  is
       scanned.  If you also specify the -h option, a directory header will be issued as each directory is entered.

       There are other options intended for use by terminfo file maintainers:

       -a     report  on  all  of  the terminal databases which ncurses would search, rather than only the first one
              that it finds.

              If the -s is also given, toe adds a column to the report, showing  (like  conflict(1))  which  entries
              which  belong  to a given terminal database.  An "*" marks entries which differ, and "+" marks equiva‐
              lent entries.

       -s     sort the output by the entry names.

       -u file
              says to write a report to the standard output, listing  dependencies  in  the  given  terminfo/termcap
              source  file.   The  report  condenses the `use' relation: each line consists of the primary name of a
              terminal that has use capabilities, followed by a colon, followed by the whitespace-separated  primary
              names of all terminals which occur in those use capabilities, followed by a newline

       -U file
              says  to  write  a  report  to  the  standard  output,  listing reverse dependencies in the given ter‐
              minfo/termcap source file.  The report reverses the `use' relation: each line consists of the  primary
              name  of  a terminal that occurs in use capabilities, followed by a colon, followed by the whitespace-
              separated primary names of all terminals which depend on it, followed by a newline.

       -vn    specifies that (verbose) output be written to standard error, showing toe's  progress.   The  optional
              parameter n is a number from 1 to 10, interpreted as for tic(1).

       -V     reports the version of ncurses which was used in this program, and exits.

FILES
       /etc/terminfo/?/*
            Compiled terminal description database.

SEE ALSO
       tic(1), infocmp(1), captoinfo(1), infotocap(1), ncurses(3NCURSES), terminfo(5).

       This describes ncurses version 5.9 (patch 20140118).



                                                                                                              toe(1)
