TOP(1)                                              User Commands                                             TOP(1)



NAME
       top - display Linux processes


SYNOPSIS
       top -hv|-bcHiOSs -d secs -n max -u|U user -p pid -o fld -w [cols]


       The traditional switches '-' and whitespace are optional.


DESCRIPTION
       The  top program provides a dynamic real-time view of a running system.  It can display system summary infor‐
       mation as well as a list of processes or threads currently being managed by the Linux kernel.  The  types  of
       system summary information shown and the types, order and size of information displayed for processes are all
       user configurable and that configuration can be made persistent across restarts.

       The program provides a limited interactive interface for process manipulation as well as a much  more  exten‐
       sive  interface for personal configuration  --  encompassing every aspect of its operation.  And while top is
       referred to throughout this document, you are free to name the program anything you  wish.   That  new  name,
       possibly  an alias, will then be reflected on top's display and used when reading and writing a configuration
       file.


OVERVIEW
   Documentation
       The remaining Table of Contents

           1. COMMAND-LINE Options
           2. SUMMARY Display
              a. UPTIME and LOAD Averages
              b. TASK and CPU States
              c. MEMORY Usage
           3. FIELDS / Columns Display
              a. DESCRIPTIONS of Fields
              b. MANAGING Fields
           4. INTERACTIVE Commands
              a. GLOBAL Commands
              b. SUMMARY AREA Commands
              c. TASK AREA Commands
                 1. Appearance
                 2. Content
                 3. Size
                 4. Sorting
              d. COLOR Mapping
           5. ALTERNATE-DISPLAY Provisions
              a. WINDOWS Overview
              b. COMMANDS for Windows
              c. SCROLLING a Window
              d. SEARCHING in a Window
              e. FILTERING in a Window
           6. FILES
              a. SYSTEM Configuration File
              b. PERSONAL Configuration File
              c. ADDING INSPECT Entries
           7. STUPID TRICKS Sampler
              a. Kernel Magic
              b. Bouncing Windows
              c. The Big Bird Window
              d. The Ol' Switcheroo
           8. BUGS, 9. HISTORY Former top, 10. AUTHOR, 11. SEE Also


   Operation
       When operating top, the two most important keys are the help ('h' or '?')  key and quit ('q') key.   Alterna‐
       tively, you could simply use the traditional interrupt key ('^C') when you're done.

       When  started for the first time, you'll be presented with these traditional elements on the main top screen:
       1) Summary Area; 2) Fields/Columns Header; 3) Task Area.  Each of these will be explored in the sections that
       follow.   There is also an Input/Message line between the Summary Area and Columns Header which needs no fur‐
       ther explanation.

       The main top screen is generally quite adaptive to changes in terminal dimensions under X-Windows.  Other top
       screens  may be less so, especially those with static text.  It ultimately depends, however, on your particu‐
       lar window manager and terminal emulator.  There may be occasions when their view of terminal size  and  cur‐
       rent contents differs from top's view, which is always based on operating system calls.

       Following  any re-size operation, if a top screen is corrupted, appears incomplete or disordered, simply typ‐
       ing something innocuous like a punctuation character or cursor  motion  key  will  usually  restore  it.   In
       extreme cases, the following sequence almost certainly will:
              key/cmd  objective
              ^Z       suspend top
              fg       resume top
              <Left>   force a screen redraw (if necessary)

       But  if  the display is still corrupted, there is one more step you could try.  Insert this command after top
       has been suspended but before resuming it.
              key/cmd  objective
              reset    restore your terminal settings

       Note: the width of top's display will be limited to 512 positions.  Displaying all fields  requires  approxi‐
       mately  250  characters.  Remaining screen width is usually allocated to any variable width columns currently
       visible.  The variable width columns, such as COMMAND, are noted in topic 3a. DESCRIPTIONS of Fields.  Actual
       output width may also be influenced by the -w switch, which is discussed in topic 1. COMMAND-LINE Options.

       Lastly, some of top's screens or functions require the use of cursor motion keys like the standard arrow keys
       plus the Home, End, PgUp and PgDn keys.  If your terminal or emulator does not provide those keys,  the  fol‐
       lowing combinations are accepted as alternatives:
              key      equivalent-key-combinations
              Up       alt + \      or  alt + k
              Down     alt + /      or  alt + j
              Left     alt + <      or  alt + h
              Right    alt + >      or  alt + l (lower case L)
              PgUp     alt + Up     or  alt + ctrl + k
              PgDn     alt + Down   or  alt + ctrl + j
              Home     alt + Left   or  alt + ctrl + h
              End      alt + Right  or  alt + ctrl + l

       The Up and Down arrow keys have special significance when prompted for line input terminated with the <Enter>
       key.  Those keys, or their aliases, can be used to retrieve previous input lines which can then be edited and
       re-input.  And there are four additional keys available with line oriented input.
              key      special-significance
              Up       recall older strings for re-editing
              Down     recall newer strings or erase entire line
              Insert   toggle between insert and overtype modes
              Delete   character removed at cursor, moving others left
              Home     jump to beginning of input line
              End      jump to end of input line


   Startup Defaults
       The  following  startup  defaults  assume no configuration file, thus no user customizations.  Even so, items
       shown with an asterisk (´*´) could be overridden through the command-line.  All are explained  in  detail  in
       the sections that follow.

           Global-defaults
              'A' - Alt display      Off (full-screen)
            * 'd' - Delay time       3.0 seconds
            * 'H' - Threads mode     Off (summarize as tasks)
              'I' - Irix mode        On  (no, 'solaris' smp)
            * 'p' - PID monitoring   Off (show all processes)
            * 's' - Secure mode      Off (unsecured)
              'B' - Bold enable      On  (yes, bold globally)
           Summary-Area-defaults
              'l' - Load Avg/Uptime  On  (thus program name)
              't' - Task/Cpu states  On  (1+1 lines, see '1')
              'm' - Mem/Swap usage   On  (2 lines worth)
              '1' - Single Cpu       On  (thus 1 line if smp)
           Task-Area-defaults
              'b' - Bold hilite      On  (not 'reverse')
            * 'c' - Command line     Off (name, not cmdline)
            * 'i' - Idle tasks       On  (show all tasks)
              'J' - Num align right  On  (not left justify)
              'j' - Str align right  Off (not right justify)
              'R' - Reverse sort     On  (pids high-to-low)
            * 'S' - Cumulative time  Off (no, dead children)
            * 'u' - User filter      Off (show euid only)
            * 'U' - User filter      Off (show any uid)
              'x' - Column hilite    Off (no, sort field)
              'y' - Row hilite       On  (yes, running tasks)
              'z' - color/mono       Off (no, colors)


1. COMMAND-LINE Options
       The command-line syntax for top consists of:

         -hv|-bcHiOSs -d secs -n max -u|U user -p pid -o fld -w [cols]

       The typically mandatory switches ('-') and even whitespace are completely optional.


       -h | -v  :Help/Version
            Show library version and the usage prompt, then quit.


       -b  :Batch-mode operation
            Starts  top in 'Batch' mode, which could be useful for sending output from top to other programs or to a
            file.  In this mode, top will not accept input and runs until the iterations limit you've set  with  the
            '-n' command-line option or until killed.


       -c  :Command-line/Program-name toggle
            Starts  top with the last remembered 'c' state reversed.  Thus, if top was displaying command lines, now
            that field will show program names, and visa versa.  See the  'c'  interactive  command  for  additional
            information.


       -d  :Delay-time interval as:  -d ss.t (secs.tenths)
            Specifies the delay between screen updates, and overrides the corresponding value in one's personal con‐
            figuration file or the startup default.  Later this can be changed with the 'd' or 's' interactive  com‐
            mands.

            Fractional  seconds  are  honored,  but  a  negative number is not allowed.  In all cases, however, such
            changes are prohibited if top is running in 'Secure mode', except for root (unless the 's'  command-line
            option was used).  For additional information on 'Secure mode' see topic 6a. SYSTEM Configuration File.


       -H  :Threads-mode operation
            Instructs  top  to  display  individual  threads.   Without  this command-line option a summation of all
            threads in each process is shown.  Later this can be changed with the 'H' interactive command.


       -i  :Idle-process toggle
            Starts top with the last remembered 'i' state reversed.  When this toggle is Off, tasks  that  have  not
            used  any  CPU  since  the last update will not be displayed.  For additional information regarding this
            toggle see topic 4c. TASK AREA Commands, SIZE.


       -n  :Number-of-iterations limit as:  -n number
            Specifies the maximum number of iterations, or frames, top should produce before ending.


       -o  :Override-sort-field as:  -o fieldname
            Specifies the name of the field on which tasks will be sorted, independent of what is reflected  in  the
            configuration file.  You can prepend a '+' or '-' to the field name to also override the sort direction.
            A leading '+' will force sorting high to low, whereas a '-' will ensure a low to high ordering.

            This option exists primarily to support automated/scripted batch mode operation.


       -O  :Output-field-names
            This option acts as a form of help for the above -o option.  It will cause top  to  print  each  of  the
            available field names on a separate line, then quit.  Such names are subject to nls translation.


       -p  :Monitor-PIDs mode as:  -pN1 -pN2 ...  or  -pN1,N2,N3 ...
            Monitor  only processes with specified process IDs.  This option can be given up to 20 times, or you can
            provide a comma delimited list with up to 20 pids.  Co-mingling both approaches is permitted.

            A pid value of zero will be treated as the process id of the top program itself once it is running.

            This is a command-line option only and should you wish to return to normal operation, it is  not  neces‐
            sary to quit and restart top  --  just issue any of these interactive commands: '=', 'u' or 'U'.

            The 'p', 'u' and 'U' command-line options are mutually exclusive.


       -s  :Secure-mode operation
            Starts  top with secure mode forced, even for root.  This mode is far better controlled through the sys‐
            tem configuration file (see topic 6. FILES).


       -S  :Cumulative-time toggle
            Starts top with the last remembered 'S' state reversed.  When 'Cumulative time' mode is On, each process
            is  listed  with  the cpu time that it and its dead children have used.  See the 'S' interactive command
            for additional information regarding this mode.


       -u | -U  :User-filter-mode as:  -u | -U number or name
            Display only processes with a user id or user name matching that given.   The  '-u'  option  matches  on
            effective user whereas the '-U' option matches on any user (real, effective, saved, or filesystem).

            Prepending  an  exclamation  point  ('!') to the user id or name instructs top to display only processes
            with users not matching the one provided.

            The 'p', 'u' and 'U' command-line options are mutually exclusive.


       -w  :Output-width-override as:  -w [ number ]
            In 'Batch' mode, when used without an argument top will format output  using  the  COLUMNS=  and  LINES=
            environment  variables,  if  set.   Otherwise,  width will be fixed at the maximum 512 columns.  With an
            argument, output width can be decreased or increased (up to 512) but the number of  rows  is  considered
            unlimited.

            In  normal  display mode, when used without an argument top will attempt to format output using the COL‐
            UMNS= and LINES= environment variables, if set.  With an argument, output width can only  be  decreased,
            not  increased.   Whether  using  environment variables or an argument with -w, when not in 'Batch' mode
            actual terminal dimensions can never be exceeded.

            Note: Without the use of this command-line option, output width is always based on the terminal at which
            top was invoked whether or not in 'Batch' mode.


2. SUMMARY Display
       Each  of the following three areas are individually controlled through one or more interactive commands.  See
       topic 4b. SUMMARY AREA Commands for additional information regarding these provisions.


   2a. UPTIME and LOAD Averages
       This portion consists of a single line containing:
           program or window name, depending on display mode
           current time and length of time since last boot
           total number of users
           system load avg over the last 1, 5 and 15 minutes


   2b. TASK and CPU States
       This portion consists of a minimum of two lines.  In an SMP environment, additional lines can  reflect  indi‐
       vidual CPU state percentages.

       Line  1  shows total tasks or threads, depending on the state of the Threads-mode toggle.  That total is fur‐
       ther classified as:
           running; sleeping; stopped; zombie

       Line 2 shows CPU state percentages based on the interval since the last refresh.  Where two labels are  shown
       below, those for more recent kernel versions are shown first.
           us, user    : time running un-niced user processes
           sy, system  : time running kernel processes
           ni, nice    : time running niced user processes
           wa, IO-wait : time waiting for I/O completion
           hi : time spent servicing hardware interrupts
           si : time spent servicing software interrupts
           st : time stolen from this vm by the hypervisor


   2c. MEMORY Usage
       This  portion  consists  of  two  lines  which  may express values in kibibytes (KiB) through exbibytes (EiB)
       depending on the scaling factor enforced with the 'E' interactive command.

       Line 1 reflects physical memory, classified as:
           total, used, free and buffers

       Line 2 reflects mostly virtual memory, classified as:
           total, used, free and cached (which is physical memory)

       This table may help in interpreting the scaled values displayed:
           KiB = kibibyte = 1024 bytes
           MiB = mebibyte = 1024 KiB = 1,048,576 bytes
           GiB = gibibyte = 1024 MiB = 1,073,741,824 bytes
           TiB = tebibyte = 1024 GiB = 1,099,511,627,776 bytes
           PiB = pebibyte = 1024 TiB = 1,125,899,906,842,624 bytes
           EiB = exbibyte = 1024 PiB = 1,152,921,504,606,846,976 bytes


3. FIELDS / Columns
   3a. DESCRIPTIONS of Fields
       Listed below are top's available process fields (columns).  They  are  shown  in  strict  ascii  alphabetical
       order.   You may customize their position and whether or not they are displayable with the 'f' or 'F' (Fields
       Management) interactive commands.

       Any field is selectable as the sort field, and you control whether they are  sorted  high-to-low  or  low-to-
       high.  For additional information on sort provisions see topic 4c. TASK AREA Commands, SORTING.

       The  fields related to physical memory or virtual memory reference '(KiB)' as the default, unsuffixed display
       mode.  Such fields can, however, be scaled differently via the 'e' interactive command.


        1. %CPU  --  CPU Usage
           The task's share of the elapsed CPU time since the last screen update, expressed as a percentage of total
           CPU time.

           In  a  true  SMP  environment,  if  a process is multi-threaded and top is not operating in Threads mode,
           amounts greater than 100% may be reported.  You toggle Threads mode with the 'H' interactive command.

           Also for multi-processor environments, if 'Irix mode' is Off, top will operate in 'Solaris mode' where  a
           task's  cpu  usage will be divided by the total number of CPUs.  You toggle 'Irix/Solaris' modes with the
           'I' interactive command.


        2. %MEM  --  Memory Usage (RES)
           A task's currently used share of available physical memory.


        3. CGROUPS  --  Control Groups
           The names of the control group(s) to which a process belongs, or '-' if not applicable for that process.

           Control Groups provide for allocating resources (cpu, memory, network bandwidth,  etc.)  among  installa‐
           tion-defined  groups of processes.  They enable fine-grained control over allocating, denying, prioritiz‐
           ing, managing and monitoring those resources.

           Many different hierarchies of cgroups can exist simultaneously on a system and each hierarchy is attached
           to one or more subsystems.  A subsystem represents a single resource.

           Note:  The  'CGROUPS'  field, unlike most columns, is not fixed-width.  When displayed, it plus any other
           variable width columns will be allocated all remaining screen width (up to the maximum  512  characters).
           Even  so, such variable width fields could still suffer truncation.  See topic 5c. SCROLLING a Window for
           additional information on accessing any truncated data.


        4. CODE  --  Code Size (KiB)
           The amount of physical memory devoted to executable code, also known as the 'text resident set'  size  or
           TRS.


        5. COMMAND  --  Command Name or Command Line
           Display  the command line used to start a task or the name of the associated program.  You toggle between
           command line and name with 'c', which is both a command-line option and an interactive command.

           When you've chosen to display command lines, processes without a command line (like kernel threads)  will
           be shown with only the program name in brackets, as in this example:
               [kthreadd]

           This  field  may also be impacted by the 'forest view' display mode.  See the 'V' interactive command for
           additional information regarding that mode.

           Note: The 'COMMAND' field, unlike most columns, is not fixed-width.  When displayed, it  plus  any  other
           variable  width  columns will be allocated all remaining screen width (up to the maximum 512 characters).
           Even so, such variable width fields could still suffer truncation.  This  is  especially  true  for  this
           field  when  command  lines are being displayed (the 'c' interactive command.)  See topic 5c. SCROLLING a
           Window for additional information on accessing any truncated data.


        6. DATA  --  Data + Stack Size (KiB)
           The amount of physical memory devoted to other than executable code, also known  as  the  'data  resident
           set' size or DRS.


        7. ENVIRON  --  Environment variables
           Display  all  of the environment variables, if any, as seen by the respective processes.  These variables
           will be displayed in their raw native order, not the sorted order you are accustomed to  seeing  with  an
           unqualified 'set'.

           Note:  The  'ENVIRON'  field, unlike most columns, is not fixed-width.  When displayed, it plus any other
           variable width columns will be allocated all remaining screen width (up to the maximum  512  characters).
           Even  so,  such  variable  width  fields could still suffer truncation.  This is especially true for this
           field.  See topic 5c. SCROLLING a Window for additional information on accessing any truncated data.


        8. Flags  --  Task Flags
           This column represents the task's current scheduling flags which are expressed  in  hexadecimal  notation
           and with zeros suppressed.  These flags are officially documented in <linux/sched.h>.


        9. GID  --  Group Id
           The effective group ID.


       10. GROUP  --  Group Name
           The effective group name.


       11. NI  --  Nice Value
           The  nice  value of the task.  A negative nice value means higher priority, whereas a positive nice value
           means lower priority.  Zero in this field simply means priority will not be  adjusted  in  determining  a
           task's dispatch-ability.


       12. P  --  Last used CPU (SMP)
           A  number  representing  the last used processor.  In a true SMP environment this will likely change fre‐
           quently since the kernel intentionally uses weak affinity.  Also, the very act of running top  may  break
           this  weak  affinity  and cause more processes to change CPUs more often (because of the extra demand for
           cpu time).


       13. PGRP  --  Process Group Id
           Every process is member of a unique process group which is used for distribution of signals and by termi‐
           nals  to arbitrate requests for their input and output.  When a process is created (forked), it becomes a
           member of the process group of its parent.  By convention, this value equals the process ID (see PID)  of
           the first member of a process group, called the process group leader.


       14. PID  --  Process Id
           The  task's  unique  process  ID,  which  periodically wraps, though never restarting at zero.  In kernel
           terms, it is a dispatchable entity defined by a 'task_struct'.

           This value may also be used as: a process group ID (see PGRP); a session ID for the session  leader  (see
           SID);  a  thread  group  ID  for  the  thread group leader (see TGID); and a TTY process group ID for the
           process group leader (see TPGID).


       15. PPID  --  Parent Process Id
           The process ID (pid) of a task's parent.


       16. PR  --  Priority
           The scheduling priority of the task.  If you see 'rt' in this field, it means the task is  running  under
           'real time' scheduling priority.

           Under  linux,  real time priority is somewhat misleading since traditionally the operating itself was not
           preemptible.  And while the 2.6 kernel can be made mostly preemptible, it is not always so.


       17. RES  --  Resident Memory Size (KiB)
           The non-swapped physical memory a task has used.


       18. RUID  --  Real User Id
           The real user ID.


       19. RUSER  --  Real User Name
           The real user name.


       20. S  --  Process Status
           The status of the task which can be one of:
               D = uninterruptible sleep
               R = running
               S = sleeping
               T = traced or stopped
               Z = zombie

           Tasks shown as running should be more properly thought of as 'ready to run'   --   their  task_struct  is
           simply  represented  on the Linux run-queue.  Even without a true SMP machine, you may see numerous tasks
           in this state depending on top's delay interval and nice value.


       21. SHR  --  Shared Memory Size (KiB)
           The amount of shared memory available to a task, not all of  which  is  typically  resident.   It  simply
           reflects memory that could be potentially shared with other processes.


       22. SID  --  Session Id
           A  session is a collection of process groups (see PGRP), usually established by the login shell.  A newly
           forked process joins the session of its creator.  By convention, this value equals the  process  ID  (see
           PID) of the first member of the session, called the session leader, which is usually the login shell.


       23. SUID  --  Saved User Id
           The saved user ID.


       24. SUPGIDS  --  Supplementary Group IDs
           The  IDs  of any supplementary group(s) established at login or inherited from a task's parent.  They are
           displayed in a comma delimited list.

           Note: The 'SUPGIDS' field, unlike most columns, is not fixed-width.  When displayed, it  plus  any  other
           variable  width  columns will be allocated all remaining screen width (up to the maximum 512 characters).
           Even so, such variable width fields could still suffer truncation.  See topic 5c. SCROLLING a Window  for
           additional information on accessing any truncated data.


       25. SUPGRPS  --  Supplementary Group Names
           The names of any supplementary group(s) established at login or inherited from a task's parent.  They are
           displayed in a comma delimited list.

           Note: The 'SUPGRPS' field, unlike most columns, is not fixed-width.  When displayed, it  plus  any  other
           variable  width  columns will be allocated all remaining screen width (up to the maximum 512 characters).
           Even so, such variable width fields could still suffer truncation.  See topic 5c. SCROLLING a Window  for
           additional information on accessing any truncated data.


       26. SUSER  --  Saved User Name
           The saved user name.


       27. SWAP  --  Swapped Size (KiB)
           The non-resident portion of a task's address space.


       28. TGID  --  Thread Group Id
           The ID of the thread group to which a task belongs.  It is the PID of the thread group leader.  In kernel
           terms, it represents those tasks that share an 'mm_struct'.


       29. TIME  --  CPU Time
           Total CPU time the task has used since it started.  When 'Cumulative mode' is On, each process is  listed
           with  the cpu time that it and its dead children have used.  You toggle 'Cumulative mode' with 'S', which
           is both a command-line option and an interactive command.  See the 'S' interactive command for additional
           information regarding this mode.


       30. TIME+  --  CPU Time, hundredths
           The same as 'TIME', but reflecting more granularity through hundredths of a second.


       31. TPGID  --  Tty Process Group Id
           The process group ID of the foreground process for the connected tty, or -1 if a process is not connected
           to a terminal.  By convention, this value equals the process ID (see PID) of  the  process  group  leader
           (see PGRP).


       32. TTY  --  Controlling Tty
           The name of the controlling terminal.  This is usually the device (serial port, pty, etc.) from which the
           process was started, and which it uses for input or output.  However, a task need not be associated  with
           a terminal, in which case you'll see '?' displayed.


       33. UID  --  User Id
           The effective user ID of the task's owner.


       34. USED  --  Memory in Use (KiB)
           This field represents the non-swapped physical memory a task has used (RES) plus the non-resident portion
           of its address space (SWAP).


       35. USER  --  User Name
           The effective user name of the task's owner.


       36. VIRT  --  Virtual Memory Size (KiB)
           The total amount of virtual memory used by the task.  It includes all code,  data  and  shared  libraries
           plus pages that have been swapped out and pages that have been mapped but not used.


       37. WCHAN  --  Sleeping in Function
           Depending on the availability of the kernel link map ('System.map'), this field will show the name or the
           address of the kernel function in which the task is currently sleeping.  Running  tasks  will  display  a
           dash ('-') in this column.

           By displaying this field, top's own working set could be increased by over 700Kb, depending on the kernel
           version.  Should that occur, your only means of reducing that overhead will be to stop and restart top.


       38. nDRT  --  Dirty Pages Count
           The number of pages that have been modified since they were last written  to  auxiliary  storage.   Dirty
           pages  must be written to auxiliary storage before the corresponding physical memory location can be used
           for some other virtual page.


       39. nMaj  --  Major Page Fault Count
           The number of major page faults that have occurred for a task.   A  page  fault  occurs  when  a  process
           attempts  to  read from or write to a virtual page that is not currently present in its address space.  A
           major page fault is when auxiliary storage access is involved in making that page available.


       40. nMin  --  Minor Page Fault count
           The number of minor page faults that have occurred for a task.   A  page  fault  occurs  when  a  process
           attempts  to  read from or write to a virtual page that is not currently present in its address space.  A
           minor page fault does not involve auxiliary storage access in making that page available.


       41. nTH  --  Number of Threads
           The number of threads associated with a process.


       42. nsIPC  --  IPC namespace
           The Inode of the namespace used to isolate interprocess communication (IPC) resources such  as  System  V
           IPC objects and POSIX message queues.


       43. nsMNT  --  MNT namespace
           The  Inode  of the namespace used to isolate filesystem mount points thus offering different views of the
           filesystem hierarchy.


       44. nsNET  --  NET namespace
           The Inode of the namespace used to isolate resources such as network devices, IP addresses,  IP  routing,
           port numbers, etc.


       45. nsPID  --  PID namespace
           The Inode of the namespace used to isolate process ID numbers meaning they need not remain unique.  Thus,
           each such namespace could have its own 'init' (PID #1) to manage various initialization  tasks  and  reap
           orphaned child processes.


       46. nsUSER  --  USER namespace
           The  Inode  of the namespace used to isolate the user and group ID numbers.  Thus, a process could have a
           normal unprivileged user ID outside a user namespace while having a user ID of 0, with full  root  privi‐
           leges, inside that namespace.


       47. nsUTS  --  UTS namespace
           The  Inode  of  the namespace used to isolate hostname and NIS domain name.  UTS simply means "UNIX Time-
           sharing System".


       48. vMj  --  Major Page Fault Count Delta
           The number of major page faults that have occurred since the last update (see nMaj).


       49. vMn  --  Minor Page Fault Count Delta
           The number of minor page faults that have occurred since the last update (see nMin).



   3b. MANAGING Fields
       After pressing the interactive command 'f' or 'F' (Fields Management) you will be  presented  with  a  screen
       showing:  1)  the  ´current´  window name; 2) the designated sort field; 3) all fields in their current order
       along with descriptions.  Entries marked with an asterisk are the currently displayed  fields,  screen  width
       permitting.


           o  As the on screen instructions indicate, you navigate among the fields with the Up and Down arrow keys.
              The PgUp, PgDn, Home and End keys can also be used to quickly reach the first or last available field.


           o  The Right arrow key selects a field for repositioning and the Left arrow key or the <Enter>  key  com‐
              mits that field's placement.


           o  The  'd'  key or the <Space> bar toggles a field's display status, and thus the presence or absence of
              the asterisk.


           o  The 's' key designates a field as the sort field.  See topic 4c. TASK AREA Commands, SORTING for addi‐
              tional information regarding your selection of a sort field.


           o  The 'a' and 'w' keys can be used to cycle through all available windows and the 'q' or <Esc> keys exit
              Fields Management.


       The Fields Management screen can  also  be  used  to  change  the  ´current´  window/field  group  in  either
       full-screen mode or alternate-display mode.  Whatever was targeted when 'q' or <Esc> was pressed will be made
       current as you return to the top display.  See topic 5. ALTERNATE-DISPLAY Provisions and the 'g'  interactive
       command for insight into ´current´ windows and field groups.


       Note:  Any  window  that  has  been scrolled horizontally will be reset if any field changes are made via the
       Fields Management screen.  Any vertical scrolled position, however, will not  be  affected.   See  topic  5c.
       SCROLLING a Window for additional information regarding vertical and horizontal scrolling.


4. INTERACTIVE Commands
       Listed  below is a brief index of commands within categories.  Some commands appear more than once  --  their
       meaning or scope may vary depending on the context in which they are issued.

         4a. Global-Commands
               <Ent/Sp> ?, =, 0,
               A, B, d, E, e, g, h, H, I, k, q, r, s, W, X, Y, Z
         4b. Summary-Area-Commands
               C, l, t, m, 1, 2, 3
         4c. Task-Area-Commands
               Appearance:  b, J, j, x, y, z
               Content:     c, f, F, o, O, S, u, U, V
               Size:        #, i, n
               Sorting:     <, >, f, F, R
         4d. Color-Mapping
               <Ret>, a, B, b, H, M, q, S, T, w, z, 0 - 7
         5b. Commands-for-Windows
               -, _, =, +, A, a, g, G, w
         5c. Scrolling-a-Window
               C, Up, Dn, Left, Right, PgUp, PgDn, Home, End
         5d. Searching-in-a-Window
               L, &


   4a. GLOBAL Commands
       The global interactive commands are always available in both full-screen  mode  and  alternate-display  mode.
       However, some of these interactive commands are not available when running in 'Secure mode'.

       If  you  wish  to  know in advance whether or not your top has been secured, simply ask for help and view the
       system summary on the second line.


         <Enter> or <Space>  :Refresh-Display
              These commands awaken top and following receipt of any input the entire  display  will  be  repainted.
              They also force an update of any hotplugged cpu or physical memory changes.

              Use either of these keys if you have a large delay interval and wish to see current status,


          ? | h  :Help
              There  are  two help levels available.  The first will provide a reminder of all the basic interactive
              commands.  If top is secured, that screen will be abbreviated.

              Typing 'h' or '?' on that help screen will take you to help for those interactive commands  applicable
              to alternate-display mode.


          =  :Exit-Task-Limits
              Removes restrictions on which tasks are shown.  This command will reverse any 'i' (idle tasks) and 'n'
              (max tasks) commands that might be active.  It also provides for an exit from pid  monitoring,  'user'
              filtering and 'other' filtering.  See the '-p' command-line option for a discussion of PID monitoring,
              the 'U' or 'u' interactive commands for user filtering and the 'O' or  'o'  interactive  commands  for
              'other' filtering.

              Additionally,  any  window  that  has  been  scrolled  will be reset with this command.  See topic 5c.
              SCROLLING a Window for additional information regarding vertical and horizontal scrolling.

              When operating in alternate-display mode this command has a broader meaning.


          0  :Zero-Suppress toggle
              This command determines whether zeros are shown or suppressed for many of the fields in a task window.
              Fields like UID, GID, NI, PR or P are not affected by this toggle.


          A  :Alternate-Display-Mode toggle
              This  command  will  switch  between full-screen mode and alternate-display mode.  See topic 5. ALTER‐
              NATE-DISPLAY Provisions and the 'g' interactive command for insight into ´current´ windows  and  field
              groups.


          B  :Bold-Disable/Enable toggle
              This command will influence use of the 'bold' terminfo capability and alters both the summary area and
              task area for the ´current´ window.  While it is intended primarily for use with  dumb  terminals,  it
              can be applied anytime.

              Note:  When  this toggle is On and top is operating in monochrome mode, the entire display will appear
              as normal text.  Thus, unless the 'x' and/or 'y' toggles are using reverse for emphasis, there will be
              no visual confirmation that they are even on.


       *  d | s  :Change-Delay-Time-interval
              You will be prompted to enter the delay time, in seconds, between display updates.

              Fractional seconds are honored, but a negative number is not allowed.  Entering 0 causes (nearly) con‐
              tinuous updates, with an unsatisfactory display as the system and tty driver try to keep up with top's
              demands.  The delay value is inversely proportional to system loading, so set it with care.

              If  at  any time you wish to know the current delay time, simply ask for help and view the system sum‐
              mary on the second line.


          E  :Extend-Memory-Scale in Summary Area
              With this command you can cycle through the available summary area memory scaling  which  ranges  from
              KiB (kibibytes or 1,024 bytes) through EiB (exbibytes or 1,152,921,504,606,846,976 bytes).

              If  you  see a '+' between a displayed number and the following label, it means that top was forced to
              truncate some portion of that number.  By raising the scaling factor, such truncation can be avoided.


          e  :Extend-Memory-Scale in Task Windows
              With this command you can cycle through the available task window memory scaling which ranges from KiB
              (kibibytes or 1,024 bytes) through PiB (pebibytes or 1,125,899,906,842,624 bytes).

              While  top will try to honor the selected target range, additional scaling might still be necessary in
              order to accommodate current values.  If you wish to see a more homogeneous result in the memory  col‐
              umns,  raising  the scaling range will usually accomplish that goal.  Raising it too high, however, is
              likely to produce an all zero result which cannot be suppressed with the '0' interactive command.


          g  :Choose-Another-Window/Field-Group
              You will be prompted to enter a number between 1 and 4 designating the field  group  which  should  be
              made  the  ´current´  window.   You  will soon grow comfortable with these 4 windows, especially after
              experimenting with alternate-display mode.


          H  :Threads-mode toggle
              When this toggle is On, individual threads will be displayed for all processes  in  all  visible  task
              windows.  Otherwise, top displays a summation of all threads in each process.


          I  :Irix/Solaris-Mode toggle
              When  operating  in  'Solaris mode' ('I' toggled Off), a task's cpu usage will be divided by the total
              number of CPUs.  After issuing this command, you'll be told the new state of this toggle.


       *  k  :Kill-a-task
              You will be prompted for a PID and then the signal to send.

              Entering no PID or a negative number will be interpreted as the default shown in the prompt (the first
              task displayed).  A PID value of zero means the top program itself.

              The  default  signal,  as  reflected in the prompt, is SIGTERM.  However, you can send any signal, via
              number or name.

              If you wish to abort the kill process, do one of the following depending on your progress:
                  1) at the pid prompt, type an invalid number
                  2) at the signal prompt, type 0 (or any invalid signal)


          q  :Quit


       *  r  :Renice-a-Task
              You will be prompted for a PID and then the value to nice it to.

              Entering no PID or a negative number will be interpreted as the default shown in the prompt (the first
              task displayed).  A PID value of zero means the top program itself.

              A  positive  nice value will cause a process to lose priority.  Conversely, a negative nice value will
              cause a process to be viewed more favorably by the kernel.  As a general rule, ordinary users can only
              increase the nice value and are prevented from lowering it.

              If you wish to abort the renice process, do one of the following depending on your progress:
                  1) at the pid prompt, type an invalid number
                  2) at the nice prompt, type <Enter> with no input


          W  :Write-the-Configuration-File
              This will save all of your options and toggles plus the current display mode and delay time.  By issu‐
              ing this command just before quitting top, you will be able restart later in exactly that same state.


          X  :Extra-Fixed-Width
              Some fields are fixed width and not scalable.  As such, they are subject to truncation which would  be
              indicated by a '+' in the last position.

              This interactive command can be used to alter the widths of the following fields:

                  field  default    field  default    field  default
                  GID       5       GROUP     8       WCHAN    10
                  RUID      5       RUSER     8       nsIPC    10
                  SUID      5       SUSER     8       nsMNT    10
                  UID       5       USER      8       nsNET    10
                                    TTY       8       nsPID    10
                                                      nsUSR    10
                                                      nsUTS    10

              You  will  be  prompted  for  the amount to be added to the default widths shown above.  Entering zero
              forces a return to those defaults.

              If you enter a negative number, top will automatically increase the column size as needed until  there
              is  no more truncated data.  You can accelerate this process by reducing the delay interval or holding
              down the <Space> bar.

              Note: Whether explicitly or automatically increased, the widths for these fields are  never  decreased
              by top.  To narrow them you must specify a smaller number or restore the defaults.


          Y  :Inspect-Other-Output
              After  issuing  the 'Y' interactive command, you will be prompted for a target PID.  Typing a value or
              accepting the default results in a separate screen.  That screen can be used  to  view  a  variety  of
              files or piped command output while the normal top iterative display is paused.

              Note: This interactive command is only fully realized when supporting entries have been manually added
              to the end of the top configuration file.  For details on creating those entries, see topic 6c. ADDING
              INSPECT Entries.

              Most  of  the  keys  used to navigate the Inspect feature are reflected in its header prologue.  There
              are, however, additional keys available once you have selected a particular file or command.  They are
              familiar to anyone who has used the pager 'less' and are summarized here for future reference.

                  key      function
                  '='      alternate status-line, file or pipeline
                  '/'      find, equivalent to 'L' locate
                  'n'      find next, equivalent to '&' locate next
                  <Space>  scroll down, equivalent to <PgDn>
                  'b'      scroll up, equivalent to <PgUp>
                  'g'      first line, equivalent to <Home>
                  'G'      last line, equivalent to <End>


          Z  :Change-Color-Mapping
              This  key will take you to a separate screen where you can change the colors for the ´current´ window,
              or for all windows.  For details regarding this interactive command see topic 4d. COLOR Mapping.


       *  The commands shown with an asterisk (´*´) are not available in 'Secure mode', nor will they  be  shown  on
          the level-1 help screen.


   4b. SUMMARY AREA Commands
       The  summary  area  interactive  commands are always available in both full-screen mode and alternate-display
       mode.  They affect the beginning lines of your display and  will  determine  the  position  of  messages  and
       prompts.

       These  commands  always  impact just the ´current´ window/field group.  See topic 5. ALTERNATE-DISPLAY Provi‐
       sions and the 'g' interactive command for insight into ´current´ windows and field groups.


          C  :Show-scroll-coordinates toggle
              Toggle an informational message which is displayed whenever the message line is  not  otherwise  being
              used.  For additional information see topic 5c. SCROLLING a Window.


          l  :Load-Average/Uptime toggle
              This  is  also  the line containing the program name (possibly an alias) when operating in full-screen
              mode or the ´current´ window name when operating in alternate-display mode.


          t  :Task/Cpu-States toggle
              This command affects from 2 to many summary area lines, depending on the state of the '1', '2' or  '3'
              command toggles and whether or not top is running under true SMP.

              This  portion  of  the  summary  area  is  also  influenced  by the 'H' interactive command toggle, as
              reflected in the total label which shows either 'Tasks' or 'Threads'.


          m  :Memory/Swap-Usage toggle
              This command affects the two summary area lines dealing with physical and virtual memory.


          1  :Single/Separate-Cpu-States toggle
              This command affects how the 't' command's Cpu States portion is shown.  Although this  toggle  exists
              primarily to serve massively-parallel SMP machines, it is not restricted to solely SMP environments.

              When  you see '%Cpu(s):' in the summary area, the '1' toggle is On and all cpu information is gathered
              in a single line.  Otherwise, each cpu is displayed separately as: '%Cpu0, %Cpu1, ...'  up  to  avail‐
              able screen height.


          2  :NUMA-Nodes/Cpu-Summary toggle
              This  command toggles between the '1' command cpu summary display (only) or a summary display plus the
              cpu usage statistics for each NUMA Node.  It is only available if a system has the requisite NUMA sup‐
              port.


          3  :Expand-NUMA-Node
              You  will  be invited to enter a number representing a NUMA Node.  Thereafter, a node summary plus the
              statistics for each cpu in that node will be shown until either the  '1'  or  '2'  command  toggle  is
              pressed.  This interactive command is only available if a system has the requisite NUMA support.


       Note: If the entire summary area has been toggled Off for any window, you would be left with just the message
       line.  In that way, you will have maximized available task rows but (temporarily) sacrificed the program name
       in full-screen mode or the ´current´ window name when in alternate-display mode.


   4c. TASK AREA Commands
       The task area interactive commands are always available in full-screen mode.

       The  task  area  interactive commands are never available in alternate-display mode if the ´current´ window's
       task display has been toggled Off (see topic 5. ALTERNATE-DISPLAY Provisions).


       APPEARANCE of task window
          J  :Justify-Numeric-Columns toggle
              Alternates between right-justified (the default) and left-justified numeric data.  If the numeric data
              completely fills the available column, this command toggle may impact the column header only.

          j  :Justify-Character-Columns toggle
              Alternates  between left-justified (the default) and right-justified character data.  If the character
              data completely fills the available column, this command toggle may impact the column header only.

         The following commands will also be influenced by the state of the global 'B' (bold enable) toggle.

          b  :Bold/Reverse toggle
              This command will impact how the 'x' and 'y' toggles are displayed.  Further, it will only  be  avail‐
              able when at least one of those toggles is On.

          x  :Column-Highlight toggle
              Changes  highlighting for the current sort field.  If you forget which field is being sorted this com‐
              mand can serve as a quick visual reminder, providing the sort field  is  being  displayed.   The  sort
              field might not be visible because:
                  1) there is insufficient Screen Width
                  2) the 'f' interactive command turned it Off

              Note: Whenever 'Searching' and/or 'Other Filtering' is active in a window, column highlighting is tem‐
              porarily disabled.  See the notes at the end of topics 5d. SEARCHING and 5e. FILTERING for an explana‐
              tion why.

          y  :Row-Highlight toggle
              Changes  highlighting for "running" tasks.  For additional insight into this task state, see topic 3a.
              DESCRIPTIONS of Fields, the 'S' field (Process Status).

              Use of this provision provides important insight into your system's health.  The only costs will be  a
              few additional tty escape sequences.

          z  :Color/Monochrome toggle
              Switches the ´current´ window between your last used color scheme and the older form of black-on-white
              or white-on-black.  This command will alter both the summary area and task area but  does  not  affect
              the state of the 'x', 'y' or 'b' toggles.

       CONTENT of task window
          c  :Command-Line/Program-Name toggle
              This  command will be honored whether or not the 'COMMAND' column is currently visible.  Later, should
              that field come into view, the change you applied will be seen.

          f | F  :Fields-Management
              These keys display a separate screen where you can change which fields are displayed, their order  and
              also designate the sort field.  For additional information on these interactive commands see topic 3b.
              MANAGING Fields.

          o | O  :Other-Filtering
              You will be prompted for the selection criteria which then determines which tasks will be shown in the
              ´current´ window.  Your criteria can be made case sensitive or case can be ignored.  And you determine
              if top should include or exclude matching tasks.

              See topic 5e. FILTERING in a window for details on these and additional related interactive commands.

          S  :Cumulative-Time-Mode toggle
              When 'Cumulative mode' is On, each process is listed with the cpu time that it and its  dead  children
              have used.

              When  Off,  programs that fork into many separate tasks will appear less demanding.  For programs like
              'init' or a shell this is appropriate but for others, like compilers, perhaps  not.   Experiment  with
              two  task  windows sharing the same sort field but with different 'S' states and see which representa‐
              tion you prefer.

              After issuing this command, you'll be informed of the new state of this toggle.  If you wish  to  know
              in advance whether or not 'Cumulative mode' is in effect, simply ask for help and view the window sum‐
              mary on the second line.

          u | U  :Show-Specific-User-Only
              You will be prompted for the uid or name of the user to display.  The '-u' option matches  on   effec‐
              tive user whereas the '-U' option matches on any user (real, effective, saved, or filesystem).

              Thereafter,  in  that  task window only matching users will be shown, or possibly no processes will be
              shown.  Prepending an exclamation point ('!') to the user id or name instructs  top  to  display  only
              processes with users not matching the one provided.

              Different task windows can be used to filter different users.  Later, if you wish to monitor all users
              again in the ´current´ window, re-issue this command but just press <Enter> at the prompt.

          V  :Forest-View-Mode toggle
              In this mode, processes are reordered according to their parents and the layout of the COMMAND  column
              resembles that of a tree.  In forest view mode it is still possible to toggle between program name and
              command line (see the 'c' interactive command) or between processes and threads (see the 'H'  interac‐
              tive command).

              Note: Typing any key affecting the sort order will exit forest view mode in the ´current´ window.  See
              topic 4c. TASK AREA Commands, SORTING for information on those keys.

       SIZE of task window
          i  :Idle-Process toggle
              Displays all tasks or just active tasks.  When this toggle is Off, tasks that have not  used  any  CPU
              since  the  last  update will not be displayed.  However, due to the granularity of the %CPU and TIME+
              fields, some processes may still be displayed that appear to have used no CPU.

              If this command is applied to the last task display when in alternate-display mode, then it  will  not
              affect the window's size, as all prior task displays will have already been painted.

          n | #  :Set-Maximum-Tasks
              You will be prompted to enter the number of tasks to display.  The lessor of your number and available
              screen rows will be used.

              When used in alternate-display mode, this is the command that gives you precise control over the  size
              of  each  currently  visible task display, except for the very last.  It will not affect the last win‐
              dow's size, as all prior task displays will have already been painted.

              Note: If you wish to increase the size of the last visible  task  display  when  in  alternate-display
              mode, simply decrease the size of the task display(s) above it.

       SORTING of task window
         For  compatibility,  this top supports most of the former top sort keys.  Since this is primarily a service
         to former top users, these commands do not appear on any help screen.
            command   sorted-field                  supported
              A         start time (non-display)      No
              M         %MEM                          Yes
              N         PID                           Yes
              P         %CPU                          Yes
              T         TIME+                         Yes

         Before using any of the following sort provisions, top suggests that you temporarily turn on  column  high‐
         lighting using the 'x' interactive command.  That will help ensure that the actual sort environment matches
         your intent.

         The following interactive commands will only be honored when the current sort field is visible.   The  sort
         field might not be visible because:
              1) there is insufficient Screen Width
              2) the 'f' interactive command turned it Off

          <  :Move-Sort-Field-Left
              Moves the sort column to the left unless the current sort field is the first field being displayed.

          >  :Move-Sort-Field-Right
              Moves the sort column to the right unless the current sort field is the last field being displayed.

         The following interactive commands will always be honored whether or not the current sort field is visible.

          f | F  :Fields-Management
              These  keys  display  a  separate  screen where you can change which field is used as the sort column,
              among other functions.  This can be a convenient way to simply verify the  current  sort  field,  when
              running top with column highlighting turned Off.

          R  :Reverse/Normal-Sort-Field toggle
              Using this interactive command you can alternate between high-to-low and low-to-high sorts.

         Note: Field sorting uses internal values, not those in column display.  Thus, the TTY and WCHAN fields will
         violate strict ASCII collating sequence.

   4d. COLOR Mapping
       When you issue the 'Z' interactive command, you will be presented with a separate screen.  That screen can be
       used  to  change  the  colors in just the ´current´ window or in all four windows before returning to the top
       display.

       The following interactive commands are available.
           4 upper case letters to select a target
           8 numbers to select a color
           normal toggles available
               'B'       :bold disable/enable
               'b'       :running tasks "bold"/reverse
               'z'       :color/mono
           other commands available
               'a'/'w'   :apply, then go to next/prior
               <Enter>   :apply and exit
               'q'       :abandon current changes and exit

       If you use 'a' or 'w' to cycle the targeted window, you will have applied the color scheme that was displayed
       when  you  left that window.  You can, of course, easily return to any window and reapply different colors or
       turn colors Off completely with the 'z' toggle.

       The Color Mapping screen can also be used to change the ´current´ window/field group  in  either  full-screen
       mode  or  alternate-display mode.  Whatever was targeted when 'q' or <Enter> was pressed will be made current
       as you return to the top display.

5. ALTERNATE-DISPLAY Provisions
   5a. WINDOWS Overview
       Field Groups/Windows:
          In full-screen mode there is a single window represented by the entire screen.   That  single  window  can
          still  be  changed  to  display  1  of 4 different field groups (see the 'g' interactive command, repeated
          below).  Each of the 4 field groups has a unique separately configurable summary area and its own  config‐
          urable task area.

          In  alternate-display mode, those 4 underlying field groups can now be made visible simultaneously, or can
          be turned Off individually at your command.

          The summary area will always exist, even if it's only the message line.  At any given time only  one  sum‐
          mary  area  can be displayed.  However, depending on your commands, there could be from zero to four sepa‐
          rate task displays currently showing on the screen.

       Current Window:
          The ´current´ window is the window associated with the summary area and the window to which  task  related
          commands  are  always directed.  Since in alternate-display mode you can toggle the task display Off, some
          commands might be restricted for the ´current´ window.

          A further complication arises when you have toggled the first summary area line Off.  With the loss of the
          window name (the 'l' toggled line), you'll not easily know what window is the ´current´ window.

   5b. COMMANDS for Windows
          - | _  :Show/Hide-Window(s) toggles
              The '-' key turns the ´current´ window's task display On and Off.  When On, that task area will show a
              minimum of the columns header you've established with the  'f'  interactive  command.   It  will  also
              reflect any other task area options/toggles you've applied yielding zero or more tasks.

              The  '_'  key  does the same for all task displays.  In other words, it switches between the currently
              visible task display(s) and any task display(s) you had toggled Off.  If all 4 task displays are  cur‐
              rently visible, this interactive command will leave the summary area as the only display element.

       *  = | +  :Equalize-(reinitialize)-Window(s)
              The  '=' key forces the ´current´ window's task display to be visible.  It also reverses any 'i' (idle
              tasks), 'n' (max tasks), 'u'/'U' (user filter) and 'o'/'O'  (other  filter)  commands  that  might  be
              active.   Also,  if  the  window had been scrolled, it will be reset with this command.  See topic 5c.
              SCROLLING a Window for additional information regarding vertical and horizontal scrolling.

              The '+' key does the same for all windows.  The four task displays  will  reappear,  evenly  balanced.
              They  will  also have retained any customizations you had previously applied, except for the 'i' (idle
              tasks), 'n' (max tasks), 'u'/'U' (user filter), 'o'/'O' (other filter) and scrolling interactive  com‐
              mands.

       *  A  :Alternate-Display-Mode toggle
              This command will switch between full-screen mode and alternate-display mode.

              The  first  time  you  issue  this command, all four task displays will be shown.  Thereafter when you
              switch modes, you will see only the task display(s) you've chosen to make visible.

       *  a | w  :Next-Window-Forward/Backward
              This will change the ´current´ window, which  in  turn  changes  the  window  to  which  commands  are
              directed.   These  keys  act in a circular fashion so you can reach any desired ´current´ window using
              either key.

              Assuming the window name is visible (you have not toggled 'l' Off), whenever the ´current´ window name
              loses  its  emphasis/color,  that's  a  reminder  the  task  display  is Off and many commands will be
              restricted.

       *  g  :Choose-Another-Window/Field-Group
              You will be prompted to enter a number between 1 and 4 designating the field  group  which  should  be
              made the ´current´ window.

              In  full-screen  mode,  this command is necessary to alter the ´current´ window.  In alternate-display
              mode, it is simply a less convenient alternative to the 'a' and 'w' commands.

          G  :Change-Window/Field-Group-Name
              You will be prompted for a new name to be applied to the ´current´ window.  It does not  require  that
              the window name be visible (the 'l' toggle to be On).

       *  The interactive commands shown with an asterisk (´*´) have use beyond alternate-display mode.
              ´=', 'A', 'g'  are always available
              ´a', 'w'       act the same with color mapping
                             and fields management

   5c. SCROLLING a Window
       Typically  a  task window is a partial view into a systems's total tasks/threads which shows only some of the
       available fields/columns.  With these scrolling keys, you can move that view vertically  or  horizontally  to
       reveal any desired task or column.

       Up,PgUp  :Scroll-Tasks
           Move the view up toward the first task row, until the first task is displayed at the top of the ´current´
           window.  The Up arrow key moves a single line while PgUp scrolls the entire window.

       Down,PgDn  :Scroll-Tasks
           Move the view down toward the last task row, until the last task is the only task displayed at the top of
           the ´current´ window.  The Down arrow key moves a single line while PgDn scrolls the entire window.

       Left,Right  :Scroll-Columns
           Move the view of displayable fields horizontally one column at a time.

           Note:  As  a  reminder,  some fields/columns are not fixed-width but allocated all remaining screen width
           when visible.  When scrolling right or left, that feature may produce some unexpected results initially.

           Additionally, there are special provisions for any variable width field when positioned as the last  dis‐
           played field.  Once that field is reached via the right arrow key, and is thus the only column shown, you
           can continue scrolling horizontally within such a field.  See the 'C' interactive command below for addi‐
           tional information.

       Home  :Jump-to-Home-Position
           Reposition the display to the un-scrolled coordinates.

       End  :Jump-to-End-Position
           Reposition  the  display  so that the rightmost column reflects the last displayable field and the bottom
           task row represents the last task.

           Note: From this position it is still possible to scroll down and right using the  arrow  keys.   This  is
           true until a single column and a single task is left as the only display element.

       C  :Show-scroll-coordinates toggle
           Toggle an informational message which is displayed whenever the message line is not otherwise being used.
           That message will take one of two forms depending on whether or not a variable width column has also been
           scrolled.

             scroll coordinates: y = n/n (tasks), x = n/n (fields)
             scroll coordinates: y = n/n (tasks), x = n/n (fields) + nn

           The  coordinates  shown  as n/n are relative to the upper left corner of the ´current´ window.  The addi‐
           tional '+ nn' represents the displacement into a variable width column when it has been scrolled horizon‐
           tally.   Such  displacement  occurs  in  normal 8 character tab stop amounts via the right and left arrow
           keys.

           y = n/n (tasks)
               The first n represents the topmost visible task and is controlled by scrolling keys.  The second n is
               updated automatically to reflect total tasks.

           x = n/n (fields)
               The first n represents the leftmost displayed column and is controlled by scrolling keys.  The second
               n is the total number of displayable fields and is established with the 'f' interactive command.

       The above interactive commands are always available in full-screen mode but never available in alternate-dis‐
       play mode if the ´current´ window's task display has been toggled Off.

       Note:  When  any form of filtering is active, you can expect some slight aberrations when scrolling since not
       all tasks will be visible.  This is particularly apparent when using the Up/Down arrow keys.

   5d. SEARCHING in a Window
       You can use these interactive commands to locate a task row containing a particular value.

       L  :Locate-a-string
           You will be prompted for the case-sensitive string to locate starting from  the  current  window  coordi‐
           nates.  There are no restrictions on search string content.

           Searches  are not limited to values from a single field or column.  All of the values displayed in a task
           row are allowed in a search string.  You may include spaces, numbers, symbols and even forest  view  art‐
           work.

           Keying <Enter> with no input will effectively disable the '&' key until a new search string is entered.

       &  :Locate-next
           Assuming a search string has been established, top will attempt to locate the next occurrence.

       When  a  match is found, the current window is repositioned vertically so the task row containing that string
       is first.  The scroll coordinates message can provide confirmation of such vertical  repositioning  (see  the
       'C' interactive command).  Horizontal scrolling, however, is never altered via searching.

       The availability of a matching string will be influenced by the following factors.
          a. Which fields are displayable from the total available,
             see topic 3b. MANAGING Fields.
          b. Scrolling a window vertically and/or horizontally,
             see topic 5c. SCROLLING a Window.
          c. The state of the command/command-line toggle,
             see the 'c' interactive command.
          d. The stability of the chosen sort column,
             for example PID is good but %CPU bad.

       If  a  search  fails, restoring the ´current´ window home (unscrolled) position, scrolling horizontally, dis‐
       playing command-lines or choosing a more stable sort field could yet produce a successful '&' search.

       The above interactive commands are always available in full-screen mode but never available in alternate-dis‐
       play mode if the ´current´ window's task display has been toggled Off.

       Note:  Whenever  a  search  key  is  typed, top will turn column highlighting Off to prevent false matches on
       internal non-display escape sequences.  Such highlighting will be restored when a window's search  string  is
       empty.  See the 'x' interactive command for additional information on sort column highlighting.

   5e. FILTERING in a Window
       You  can use the 'Other Filter' feature to establish selection criteria which will then determine which tasks
       are shown in the ´current´ window.

       Establishing a filter requires: 1) a field name; 2) an operator; and 3) a  selection  value,  as  a  minimum.
       This is the most complex of top's user input requirements so, when you make a mistake, command recall will be
       your friend.  Remember the Up/Down arrow keys or their aliases when prompted for input.

       Filter Basics
          .  field names are case sensitive and spelled as in the header
          .  selection values need not comprise the full displayed field
          .  a selection is either case insensitive or sensitive to case
          .  the default is inclusion, prepending '!' denotes exclusions
          .  multiple selection criteria can be applied to a task window
          .  inclusion and exclusion criteria can be used simultaneously
          .  the 1 equality and 2 relational filters can be freely mixed
          .  separate unique filters are maintained for each task window

       If a field is not turned on or is not currently in view, then your selection criteria  will  not  affect  the
       display.  Later, should a filtered field become visible, the selection criteria will then be applied.

       Keyboard Summary
         o  :Other-Filter (lower case)
             You will be prompted to establish a filter that ignores case when matching.

         O  :Other-Filter (upper case)
             You will be prompted to establish a case sensitive filter.

        ^O  :Show-Active-Filters (Ctrl key + 'o')
             This  can  serve  as a reminder of which filters are active in the ´current´ window.  A summary will be
             shown on the message line until you press the <Enter> key.

         =  :Reset-Filtering in current window
             This clears all of your selection criteria in the ´current´ window.  It also has additional  impact  so
             please see topic 4a. GLOBAL Commands.

         +  :Reset-Filtering in all windows
             This clears the selection criteria in all windows, assuming you are in alternate-display mode.  As with
             the '=' interactive command, it too has additional consequences so you might wish to see topic 5b. COM‐
             MANDS for Windows.

       Input Requirements
          When  prompted  for  selection  criteria,  the  data  you provide must take one of two forms.  There are 3
          required pieces of information, with a 4th as optional.  These examples use spaces for  clarity  but  your
          input generally would not.
                  #1           #2  #3              ( required )
                  Field-Name   ?   include-if-value
               !  Field-Name   ?   exclude-if-value
               #4                                  ( optional )

          Items  #1,  #3  and  #4  should be self-explanatory.  Item #2 represents both a required delimiter and the
          operator which must be one of either equality ('=') or relation ('<' or '>').

          The '=' equality operator requires only a partial match and that can reduce your 'if-value' input require‐
          ments.   The  '>'  or '<' relational operators always employ string comparisons, even with numeric fields.
          They are designed to work with a field's default justification  and  with  homogeneous  data.   When  some
          field's numeric amounts have been subjected to scaling while others have not, that data is no longer homo‐
          geneous.

          If you establish a relational filter and you have changed the default 'Numeric' or 'Character'  justifica‐
          tion,  that  filter is likely to fail.  When a relational filter is applied to a memory field and you have
          not changed the scaling, it may produce misleading results.  This happens, for example,  because  '100.0m'
          (MiB) would appear greater than '1.000g' (GiB) when compared as strings.

          If  your  filtered  results  appear  suspect, simply altering justification or scaling may yet achieve the
          desired objective.  See the 'j', 'J' and 'e' interactive commands for additional information.

       Potential Problems
          These GROUP filters could produce the exact same results or the second one might not display  anything  at
          all, just a blank task window.
               GROUP=root        ( only the same results when )
               GROUP=ROOT        ( invoked via lower case 'o' )

          Either  of  these RES filters might yield inconsistent and/or misleading results, depending on the current
          memory scaling factor.  Or both filters could produce the exact same results.
               RES>9999          ( only the same results when )
               !RES<10000        ( memory scaling is at 'KiB' )

          This nMin filter illustrates a problem unique to scalable fields.  This particular  field  can  display  a
          maximum  of  4  digits,  beyond  which  values are automatically scaled to KiB or above.  So while amounts
          greater than 9999 exist, they will appear as 2.6m, 197k, etc.
               nMin>9999         ( always a blank task window )

       Potential Solutions
          These examples illustrate how 'Other Filtering' can be creatively applied to achieve  almost  any  desired
          result.   Single  quotes are sometimes shown to delimit the spaces which are part of a filter or to repre‐
          sent a request for status (^O) accurately.  But if you used them with if-values in real life,  no  matches
          would be found.

          Assuming  field  nTH  is  displayed,  the  first filter will result in only multi-threaded processes being
          shown.  It also reminds us that a trailing space is part of every  displayed  field.   The  second  filter
          achieves the exact same results with less typing.
               !nTH=' 1 '                ( ' for clarity only )
               nTH>1                     ( same with less i/p )

          With  Forest View mode active and the COMMAND column in view, this filter effectively collapses child pro‐
          cesses so that just 3 levels are shown.
               !COMMAND='       `- '     ( ' for clarity only )

          The final two filters appear as in response to the status request key (^O).  In reality, each filter would
          have  required separate input.  The PR example shows the two concurrent filters necessary to display tasks
          with priorities of 20 or more, since some might be negative.  Then by exploiting trailing spaces, the nMin
          series of filters could achieve the failed '9999' objective discussed above.
               'PR>20' + '!PR=-'         ( 2 for right result )
               '!nMin=0 ' + '!nMin=1 ' + '!nMin=2 ' + '!nMin=3 ' ...

       Note:  When 'Other Filtering' is active, top turns column highlighting Off to prevent false matches on inter‐
       nal non-display escape sequences.  Such highlighting will be restored when a window is no longer  subject  to
       filtering.  See the 'x' interactive command for additional information on sort column highlighting.

6. FILES
   6a. SYSTEM Configuration File
       The  presence  of  this  file will influence which version of the 'help' screen is shown to an ordinary user.
       More importantly, it will limit what ordinary users are allowed to do when top is running.  They will not  be
       able to issue the following commands.
           k        Kill a task
           r        Renice a task
           d or s   Change delay/sleep interval

       The  system  configuration file is not created by top.  Rather, you create this file manually and place it in
       the /etc directory.  Its name must be 'toprc' and must have no leading '.' (period).  It must have  only  two
       lines.

       Here is an example of the contents of /etc/toprc:
           s        # line 1: 'secure' mode switch
           5.0      # line 2: 'delay'  interval in seconds

   6b. PERSONAL Configuration File
       This  file  is  written  as '$HOME/.your-name-4-top' + 'rc'.  Use the 'W' interactive command to create it or
       update it.

       Here is the general layout:
           global   # line  1: the program name/alias notation
             "      # line  2: id,altscr,irixps,delay,curwin
           per ea   # line  a: winname,fieldscur
           window   # line  b: winflags,sortindx,maxtasks
             "      # line  c: summclr,msgsclr,headclr,taskclr
           global   # line 15: fixed-width incr
             "      # any remaining lines are devoted to the
             "      # generalized 'inspect' provisions
             "      # discussed below

       If the $HOME variable is not present, top will try to write the personal configuration file  to  the  current
       directory, subject to permissions.

   6c. ADDING INSPECT Entries
       To  exploit  the  'Y'  interactive command, you must add entries at the end of the top personal configuration
       file.  Such entries simply reflect a file to be read or command/pipeline to be executed  whose  results  will
       then be displayed in a separate scrollable, searchable window.

       If  you don't know the location or name of your top rcfile, use the 'W' interactive command to rewrite it and
       note those details.

       Inspect entries can be added with a redirected echo or by editing the  configuration  file.   Redirecting  an
       echo  risks  overwriting  the rcfile should it replace (>) rather than append (>>) to that file.  Conversely,
       when using an editor care must be taken not to corrupt existing lines, some of which will contain unprintable
       data or unusual characters.

       Those Inspect entries beginning with a '#' character are ignored, regardless of content.  Otherwise they con‐
       sist of the following 3 elements, each of which must be separated by a tab character (thus 2 '\t' total):

         .type:  literal 'file' or 'pipe'
         .name:  selection shown on the Inspect screen
         .fmts:  string representing a path or command

       The two types of Inspect entries are not interchangeable.  Those designated 'file'  will  be  accessed  using
       fopen  and must reference a single file in the '.fmts' element.  Entries specifying 'pipe' will employ popen,
       their '.fmts' element could contain many pipelined commands and, none can be interactive.

       If the file or pipeline represented in your '.fmts' deals with  the  specific  PID  input  or  accepted  when
       prompted, then the format string must also contain the '%d' specifier, as these examples illustrate.

         .fmts=  /proc/%d/numa_maps
         .fmts=  lsof -P -p %d

       For 'pipe' type entries only, you may also wish to redirect stderr to stdout for a more comprehensive result.
       Thus the format string becomes:

         .fmts=  pmap -x %d 2>&1

       Here are examples of both types of Inspect entries as they might appear in the rcfile.  The first entry  will
       be  ignored  due to the initial '#' character.  For clarity, the pseudo tab depictions (^I) are surrounded by
       an extra space but the actual tabs would not be.

         # pipe ^I Sockets ^I lsof -n -P -i 2>&1
         pipe ^I Open Files ^I lsof -P -p %d 2>&1
         file ^I NUMA Info ^I /proc/%d/numa_maps
         pipe ^I Log ^I tail -n100 /var/log/syslog | sort -Mr

       Except for the commented entry above, these next examples show  what  could  be  echoed  to  achieve  similar
       results,  assuming  the rcfile name was '.toprc'.  However, due to the embedded tab characters, each of these
       lines should be preceded by '/bin/echo -e', not just a simple an 'echo', to enable  backslash  interpretation
       regardless of which shell you use.

         "pipe\tOpen Files\tlsof -P -p %d 2>&1" >> ~/.toprc
         "file\tNUMA Info\t/proc/%d/numa_maps" >> ~/.toprc
         "pipe\tLog\ttail -n200 /var/log/syslog | sort -Mr" >> ~/.toprc

       Caution:  If  any inspect entry you create produces output with unprintable characters they will be displayed
       in either the ^C notation or hexadecimal <FF> form, depending on their value.  This applies to tab characters
       as well, which will show as '^I'.  If you want a truer representation, any embedded tabs should be expanded.

         # next would have contained '\t' ...
         # file ^I <your_name> ^I /proc/%d/status
         # but this will eliminate embedded '\t' ...
         pipe ^I <your_name> ^I cat /proc/%d/status | expand -

       The  above example takes what could have been a 'file' entry but employs a 'pipe' instead so as to expand the
       embedded tabs.

       Note: While 'pipe' type entries have been discussed in terms of pipelines and commands, there is  nothing  to
       prevent  you from including  shell scripts as well.  Perhaps even newly created scripts designed specifically
       for the 'Y' interactive command.

       Lastly, as the number of your Inspect entries grows over time, the 'Options:'  row  will  be  truncated  when
       screen width is exceeded.  That does not affect operation other than to make some selections invisible.

       However,  if  some choices are lost to truncation but you want to see more options, there is an easy solution
       hinted at below.

         Inspection Pause at pid ...
         Use:  left/right then <Enter> ...
         Options:  help  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11 ...

       The entries in the top rcfile would have a number for the '.name' element and the 'help' entry would identify
       a  shell  script  you've  written explaining what those numbered selections actually mean.  In that way, many
       more choices can be made visible.

7. STUPID TRICKS Sampler
       Many of these 'tricks' work best when you give top a scheduling boost.  So plan on starting him with  a  nice
       value of -10, assuming you've got the authority.

   7a. Kernel Magic
       For these stupid tricks, top needs full-screen mode.

       o  The  user interface, through prompts and help, intentionally implies that the delay interval is limited to
          tenths of a second.  However, you're free to set any desired delay.  If you  want  to  see  Linux  at  his
          scheduling best, try a delay of .09 seconds or less.

          For this experiment, under x-windows open an xterm and maximize it.  Then do the following:
            . provide a scheduling boost and tiny delay via:
                nice -n -10 top -d.09
            . keep sorted column highlighting Off so as to
              minimize path length
            . turn On reverse row highlighting for emphasis
            . try various sort columns (TIME/MEM work well),
              and normal or reverse sorts to bring the most
              active processes into view

          What  you'll see is a very busy Linux doing what he's always done for you, but there was no program avail‐
          able to illustrate this.

       o  Under an xterm using 'white-on-black' colors, on top's Color Mapping screen set the task  color  to  black
          and  be sure that task highlighting is set to bold, not reverse.  Then set the delay interval to around .3
          seconds.

          After bringing the most active processes into view, what you'll see are the ghostly  images  of  just  the
          currently running tasks.

       o  Delete  the existing rcfile, or create a new symlink.  Start this new version then type 'T' (a secret key,
          see topic 4c. Task Area Commands, SORTING) followed by 'W' and 'q'.  Finally, restart the program with -d0
          (zero delay).

          Your  display will be refreshed at three times the rate of the former top, a 300% speed advantage.  As top
          climbs the TIME ladder, be as patient as you can while speculating on whether or not top will  ever  reach
          the top.

   7b. Bouncing Windows
       For these stupid tricks, top needs alternate-display mode.

       o  With  3  or 4 task displays visible, pick any window other than the last and turn idle processes Off using
          the 'i' command toggle.  Depending on where you applied 'i', sometimes several task displays are  bouncing
          and sometimes it's like an accordion, as top tries his best to allocate space.

       o  Set each window's summary lines differently: one with no memory ('m'); another with no states ('t'); maybe
          one with nothing at all, just the message line.  Then hold down 'a' or 'w' and watch a variation on bounc‐
          ing windows  --  hopping windows.

       o  Display  all  4  windows  and  for  each, in turn, set idle processes to Off using the 'i' command toggle.
          You've just entered the "extreme bounce" zone.

   7c. The Big Bird Window
       This stupid trick also requires alternate-display mode.

       o  Display all 4 windows and make sure that 1:Def is the ´current´ window.  Then, keep increasing window size
          with the 'n' interactive command until all the other task displays are "pushed out of the nest".

          When  they've  all been displaced, toggle between all visible/invisible windows using the '_' command tog‐
          gle.  Then ponder this:
             is top fibbing or telling honestly your imposed truth?

   7d. The Ol' Switcheroo
       This stupid trick works best without alternate-display mode, since justification is active on  a  per  window
       basis.

       o  Start  top and make COMMAND the last (rightmost) column displayed.  If necessary, use the 'c' command tog‐
          gle to display command lines and ensure that forest view mode is active with the 'V' command toggle.

          Then use the up/down arrow keys to position the display so that some truncated  command  lines  are  shown
          ('+' in last position).  You may have to resize your xterm to produce truncation.

          Lastly, use the 'j' command toggle to make the COMMAND column right justified.

          Now  use  the  right  arrow  key  to reach the COMMAND column.  Continuing with the right arrow key, watch
          closely the direction of travel for the command lines being shown.

             some lines travel left, while others travel right

             eventually all lines will Switcheroo, and move right

8. BUGS
       To report bugs, follow the instructions at:
           http://www.debian.org/Bugs/Reporting

9. HISTORY Former top
       The original top was written by Roger Binns, based on Branko Lankester's <lankeste@fwi.uva.nl> ps program.

       Robert Nation <nation@rocket.sanders.lockheed.com> adapted it for the proc file system.

       Helmut Geyer <Helmut.Geyer@iwr.uni-heidelberg.de> added support for configurable fields.

       Plus many other individuals contributed over the years.

10. AUTHOR
       This entirely new and enhanced replacement was written by:
           Jim Warner, <james.warner@comcast.net>

       With invaluable help from:
           Craig Small, <csmall@enc.com.au>
           Albert Cahalan, <albert@users.sf.net>


11. SEE Also
       free(1), ps(1), uptime(1), atop(1), slabtop(1), vmstat(8), w(1).



procps-ng                                           November 2013                                             TOP(1)
