tput(1)                                        General Commands Manual                                       tput(1)



NAME
       tput, reset - initialize a terminal or query terminfo database

SYNOPSIS
       tput [-Ttype] capname [parms ... ]
       tput [-Ttype] init
       tput [-Ttype] reset
       tput [-Ttype] longname
       tput -S  <<
       tput -V

DESCRIPTION
       The  tput utility uses the terminfo database to make the values of terminal-dependent capabilities and infor‐
       mation available to the shell (see sh(1)), to initialize or reset the terminal, or return the  long  name  of
       the requested terminal type.  The result depends upon the capability's type:

              string
                   tput writes the string to the standard output.  No trailing newline is supplied.

              integer
                   tput writes the decimal value to the standard output, with a trailing newline.

              boolean
                   tput  simply sets the exit code (0 for TRUE if the terminal has the capability, 1 for FALSE if it
                   does not), and writes nothing to the standard output.

       Before using a value returned on the standard output, the application should test the exit  code  (e.g.,  $?,
       see  sh(1)) to be sure it is 0.  (See the EXIT CODES and DIAGNOSTICS sections.)  For a complete list of capa‐
       bilities and the capname associated with each, see terminfo(5).

       -Ttype indicates the type of terminal.  Normally this option is unnecessary, because  the  default  is  taken
              from  the  environment  variable TERM.  If -T is specified, then the shell variables LINES and COLUMNS
              will also be ignored.

       capname
              indicates the capability from the terminfo database.  When termcap support is compiled in, the termcap
              name for the capability is also accepted.

       parms  If the capability is a string that takes parameters, the arguments parms will be instantiated into the
              string.

              Most parameters are numbers.  Only a few terminfo capabilities require string parameters; tput uses  a
              table  to decide which to pass as strings.  Normally tput uses tparm (3X) to perform the substitution.
              If no parameters are given for the capability, tput writes the string without performing the substitu‐
              tion.

       -S     allows  more than one capability per invocation of tput.  The capabilities must be passed to tput from
              the standard input instead of from the command line (see example).  Only one capname  is  allowed  per
              line.   The  -S  option changes the meaning of the 0 and 1 boolean and string exit codes (see the EXIT
              CODES section).

              Again, tput uses a table and the presence of parameters in its input to decide whether  to  use  tparm
              (3X), and how to interpret the parameters.

       -V     reports the version of ncurses which was used in this program, and exits.

       init   If  the  terminfo database is present and an entry for the user's terminal exists (see -Ttype, above),
              the following will occur:

              (1)    if present, the terminal's initialization strings will be output as detailed in the terminfo(5)
                     section on Tabs and Initialization,

              (2)    any delays (e.g., newline) specified in the entry will be set in the tty driver,

              (3)    tabs expansion will be turned on or off according to the specification in the entry, and

              (4)    if tabs are not expanded, standard tabs will be set (every 8 spaces).

              If  an entry does not contain the information needed for any of the four above activities, that activ‐
              ity will silently be skipped.

       reset  Instead of putting out initialization strings, the terminal's reset strings will be output if  present
              (rs1,  rs2,  rs3, rf).  If the reset strings are not present, but initialization strings are, the ini‐
              tialization strings will be output.  Otherwise, reset acts identically to init.

       longname
              If the terminfo database is present and an entry for the user's terminal exists  (see  -Ttype  above),
              then  the long name of the terminal will be put out.  The long name is the last name in the first line
              of the terminal's description in the terminfo database [see term(5)].

       If tput is invoked by a link named reset, this has the same effect as tput reset.  See tset  for  comparison,
       which has similar behavior.

EXAMPLES
       tput init
            Initialize the terminal according to the type of terminal in the environmental variable TERM.  This com‐
            mand should be included in everyone's .profile after the environmental variable TERM has been  exported,
            as illustrated on the profile(5) manual page.

       tput -T5620 reset
            Reset an AT&T 5620 terminal, overriding the type of terminal in the environmental variable TERM.

       tput cup 0 0
            Send  the  sequence  to move the cursor to row 0, column 0 (the upper left corner of the screen, usually
            known as the "home" cursor position).

       tput clear
            Echo the clear-screen sequence for the current terminal.

       tput cols
            Print the number of columns for the current terminal.

       tput -T450 cols
            Print the number of columns for the 450 terminal.

       bold=`tput smso` offbold=`tput rmso`
            Set the shell variables bold, to begin stand-out mode  sequence,  and  offbold,  to  end  standout  mode
            sequence,  for  the  current  terminal.  This might be followed by a prompt: echo "${bold}Please type in
            your name: ${offbold}\c"

       tput hc
            Set exit code to indicate if the current terminal is a hard copy terminal.

       tput cup 23 4
            Send the sequence to move the cursor to row 23, column 4.

       tput cup
            Send the terminfo string for cursor-movement, with no parameters substituted.

       tput longname
            Print the long name from the terminfo database for the type of terminal specified in  the  environmental
            variable TERM.

            tput -S <<!
            > clear
            > cup 10 10
            > bold
            > !

            This  example shows tput processing several capabilities in one invocation.  It clears the screen, moves
            the cursor to position 10, 10 and turns on bold (extra bright) mode.   The  list  is  terminated  by  an
            exclamation mark (!) on a line by itself.

FILES
       /etc/terminfo
              compiled terminal description database

       /usr/share/tabset/*
              tab  settings  for  some  terminals,  in  a  format  appropriate  to be output to the terminal (escape
              sequences that set margins and tabs); for more information, see the "Tabs and Initialization"  section
              of terminfo(5)

EXIT CODES
       If  the  -S  option is used, tput checks for errors from each line, and if any errors are found, will set the
       exit code to 4 plus the number of lines with errors.  If no errors are found, the exit code is 0.  No indica‐
       tion of which line failed can be given so exit code 1 will never appear.  Exit codes 2, 3, and 4 retain their
       usual interpretation.  If the -S option is not used, the exit code depends on the type of capname:

            boolean
                   a value of 0 is set for TRUE and 1 for FALSE.

            string a value of 0 is set if the capname is defined for this terminal type (the  value  of  capname  is
                   returned  on  standard  output);  a value of 1 is set if capname is not defined for this terminal
                   type (nothing is written to standard output).

            integer
                   a value of 0 is always set, whether or not capname is defined for this terminal type.  To  deter‐
                   mine  if capname is defined for this terminal type, the user must test the value written to stan‐
                   dard output.  A value of -1 means that capname is not defined for this terminal type.

            other  reset or init may fail to find their respective files.  In that case, the exit code is set to 4 +
                   errno.

       Any other exit code indicates an error; see the DIAGNOSTICS section.

DIAGNOSTICS
       tput prints the following error messages and sets the corresponding exit codes.

       exit code   error message
       ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
       0           (capname  is a numeric variable that is not specified in
                   the terminfo(5) database for this  terminal  type,  e.g.
                   tput -T450 lines and tput -T2621 xmc)
       1           no error message is printed, see the EXIT CODES section.
       2           usage error
       3           unknown terminal type or no terminfo database
       4           unknown terminfo capability capname
       >4          error occurred in -S
       ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

PORTABILITY
       The  longname  and  -S options, and the parameter-substitution features used in the cup example, are not sup‐
       ported in BSD curses or in AT&T/USL curses before SVr4.

       X/Open documents only the operands for clear, init and reset.  In this implementation, clear is part  of  the
       capname  support.   Other  implementations  of tput on SVr4-based systems such as Solaris, IRIX64 and HPUX as
       well as others such as AIX and Tru64 provide support for capname operands.

       A few platforms such as FreeBSD and NetBSD recognize termcap names rather than terminfo capability  names  in
       their respective tput commands.

       Most  implementations  which provide support for capname operands use the tparm function to expand parameters
       in it.  That function expects a mixture of numeric and string parameters, requiring tput to know  which  type
       to  use.  This implementation uses a table to determine that for the standard capname operands, and an inter‐
       nal library function to analyze nonstandard capname operands.  Other implementations may simply guess that an
       operand containing only digits is intended to be a number.

SEE ALSO
       clear(1), stty(1), tabs(1), terminfo(5), termcap(3NCURSES).

       This describes ncurses version 5.9 (patch 20140118).



                                                                                                             tput(1)
