TRIAL(1)                                                                                                    TRIAL(1)



NAME
       trial - run unit tests

SYNOPSIS
       trial [ options ] [ file | package | module | TestCase | testmethod ] ...

       trial --help | -h

DESCRIPTION
       trial  loads and executes a suite of unit tests, obtained from modules, packages and files listed on the com‐
       mand line.

       trial will take either  filenames  or  fully  qualified  Python  names  as  arguments.   Thus  `trial  mypro‐
       ject/foo.py',  `trial myproject.foo' and `trial myproject.foo.SomeTestCase.test_method' are all valid ways to
       invoke trial. Multiple such arguments are also accepted, and their order will determine the  order  in  which
       the corresponding tests are run.

       After running the given test suite, the default test reporter prints a summary of the test run. This consists
       of the word "PASSED" (if all tests ran as expected) or "FAILED" (if any test behaved  unexpectedly)  followed
       by a count of the different kinds of test results encountered. The possible kinds of test results includes:

       successes
              Tests  that passed all their assertions and completed without error.  These are marked "PASSED" in the
              normal test output.

       failures
              Tests that failed an assertion, called self.fail() or explicitly raised self.failureException for some
              reason. These are marked "FAILED" in the normal test output.

       errors Tests that raised an unexpected exception (including AssertionError), tests that caused the tearDown()
              method to raise an exception, tests that run for longer than the timeout interval, tests  that  caused
              something  to  call  twisted.python.log.err()  without  subsequently calling self.flushLoggedErrors(),
              tests that leave the reactor in an unclean state, etc. These are marked "ERROR"  in  the  normal  test
              output.

              Note that because errors can be caused after the actual test method returns, it is possible for a sin‐
              gle test to be reported as both an error and a failure, and hence the total number of test results can
              be greater than the total number of tests executed.

       skips  Tests  that  were  skipped, usually because of missing dependencies. These are marked "SKIPPED" in the
              normal test output.

       expectedFailures
              Tests that failed, but were expected to fail, usually because the test is for a  feature  that  hasn't
              been implemented yet. These are marked "TODO" in the normal test output.

       unexpectedSuccesses
              Tests  that  should have been listed under expectedFailures, except that for some reason the test suc‐
              ceeded. These are marked "SUCCESS!?!" in the normal test output.

OPTIONS
       -j, --jobs number
              Set the number of process workers to run. It conflicts with the debug, exitfirst and profile options.

       -b, --debug
              Run the tests in a debugger. If that debugger is 'pdb'  (which  is  the  default  if  unspecified),  a
              `.pdbrc'  will  be  loaded from the current directory if it exists. Also does post-mortem debugging on
              exceptions.

       -B, --debug-stacktraces
              Report Deferred creation and callback stack traces.

       --coverage
              Generate  coverage  information  in  the  `coverage'  subdirectory  of  the   trial   temp   directory
              (`_trial_temp' by default). For each Python module touched by the execution of the given tests, a file
              will be created in the coverage directory named for the module's fully-qualified name with the  suffix
              `.cover'.   For  example,  because  the trial test runner is written in Python, the coverage directory
              will almost always contain a file named `twisted.trial.runner.cover'.

              Each `.cover' file contains a copy of the Python source of the module in question, with  a  prefix  at
              the  beginning of each line containing coverage information.  For lines that are not executable (blank
              lines, comments, etc.)  the prefix is blank.  For executable lines that were run in the course of  the
              test  suite, the prefix is a number indicating the number of times that line was executed.  The string
              `>>>>>>' prefixes executable lines that were not executed in the course of the test suite.

              Note that this functionality uses Python's sys.settrace() function, so tests that call  sys.settrace()
              themselves are likely to break trial's coverage functionality.

       --debugger
              Specifies  the  debugger  to  use  when the --debug option is passed. The argument should be the fully
              qualified name of an object that implements the same interface as the standard library's `pdb'.

       --disablegc
              Disable the garbage collector for the duration of the test run. As each test is run, trial  saves  the
              TestResult  objects,  which means that Python's garbage collector has more non-garbage objects to wade
              through, making each garbage-collection run slightly slower.  Disabling  garbage  collection  entirely
              will  make  some  test  suites complete faster (contrast --force-gc, below), at the cost of increasing
              (possibly greatly) memory consumption. This option also makes tests slightly more deterministic, which
              might help debugging in extreme circumstances.

       -e, --rterrors
              Print tracebacks to standard output as soon as they occur.

       --force-gc
              Run  gc.collect()  before and after each test case. This can be used to isolate errors that occur when
              objects get collected.  This option would be the default, except it makes tests run  about  ten  times
              slower.

       -h, --help
              Print a usage message to standard output, then exit.

       --help-order
              Print a list of possible orders that TestCase test methods can be run in, then exit. The orders can be
              used with the --order option described below.

       --help-reporters
              Print a list of valid reporters to standard output, then exit. Reporters  can  be  selected  with  the
              --reporter option described below.

       --help-reactors
              Print a list of possible reactors to standard output, then exit. Not all listed reactors are available
              on every platform. Reactors can be selected with the --reactor option described below.

       -l, --logfile logfile
              Direct the log to a  different  file.  The  default  file  is  `test.log'.   logfile  is  relative  to
              _trial_temp.

       -n, --dry-run
              Go through all the tests and make them pass without running.

       -N, --no-recurse
              By  default,  trial  recurses  through packages to find every module inside every subpackage.  Unless,
              that is, you specify this option.

       --nopm Don't automatically jump into debugger for post-mortem analysis of exceptions.  Only  usable  in  con‐
              junction with --debug.

       --order order
              Specify what order to run the individual test methods within the given TestCases. By default, they are
              run alphabetically. See --help-order for a list of other valid values.

       --profile
              Run tests under the Python profiler.

       -r, --reactor reactor
              Choose which reactor to use.  See --help-reactors for a list.

       --recursionlimit limit
              Set Python's recursion limit. See sys.setrecursionlimit().

       --reporter reporter
              Select the reporter to use for trial's output.  Use the --help-reporters option to see a list of valid
              reporters.

       -x, --exitfirst
              Stop  the  test  run  after  the first test which does not succeed. This includes failures, errors, or
              unexpected successes. Won't work with the --jobs option currently.

       --spew Print an insanely verbose log of everything that happens. Useful when debugging freezes  or  locks  in
              complex code.

       --tbformat format
              Format  to  display  tracebacks  with. Acceptable values are `default', `brief' and `verbose'. `brief'
              produces tracebacks that play nicely with Emacs' GUD.

       --temp-directory directory
              WARNING: Do not use this option unless you know what you are  doing.   By  default,  trial  creates  a
              directory  called  _trial_temp under the current working directory.  When trial runs, it first deletes
              this directory, then creates it, then changes into the directory to run the tests. The  log  file  and
              any coverage files are stored here. Use this option if you wish to have trial run in a directory other
              than _trial_temp. Be warned, trial will delete the directory before re-creating it.

       --testmodule filename
              Ask trial to look into filename and run any tests specified  using  the  Emacs-style  buffer  variable
              `test-case-name'.

       --unclean-warnings
              As  of  Twisted 8.0, trial will report an error if the reactor is left unclean at the end of the test.
              This option is provided to assist in migrating from Twisted 2.5 to Twisted  8.0  and  later.  Enabling
              this option will turn the errors into warnings.

       -u, --until-failure
              Keep  looping  the  tests until one of them raises an error or a failure.  This is particularly useful
              for reproducing intermittent failures.

       --version
              Prints the Twisted version number and exit.

       --without-module modulenames
              Simulate the lack of the specified comma-separated list of modules. This makes it look like  the  mod‐
              ules are not present in the system, causing tests to check the behavior for that configuration.

       -z, --random seed
              Run the tests in random order using the specified seed. Don't pass this option if you also are passing
              --order.

SEE ALSO
       The latest version of  the  trial  documentation  can  be  found  at  http://twistedmatrix.com/documents/cur‐
       rent/core/howto/testing.html

AUTHOR
       Written by Jonathan M. Lange

REPORTING BUGS
       To report a bug, visit http://twistedmatrix.com/trac/newticket

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2003-2013 Twisted Matrix Laboratories
       This  is  free  software;  see  the  source  for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MER‐
       CHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.



                                                      Jun 2013                                              TRIAL(1)
