tset(1)                                        General Commands Manual                                       tset(1)



NAME
       tset, reset - terminal initialization

SYNOPSIS
       tset [-IQVcqrsw] [-] [-e ch] [-i ch] [-k ch] [-m mapping] [terminal]
       reset [-IQVcqrsw] [-] [-e ch] [-i ch] [-k ch] [-m mapping] [terminal]

DESCRIPTION
       Tset  initializes terminals.  Tset first determines the type of terminal that you are using.  This determina‐
       tion is done as follows, using the first terminal type found.

       1. The terminal argument specified on the command line.

       2. The value of the TERM environmental variable.

       3. (BSD systems only.) The terminal type associated with the standard error output device  in  the  /etc/ttys
       file.   (On  System-V-like  UNIXes  and  systems  using  that convention, getty does this job by setting TERM
       according to the type passed to it by /etc/inittab.)

       4. The default terminal type, “unknown”.

       If the terminal type was not specified on the command-line, the -m option mappings are then applied (see  the
       section  TERMINAL TYPE MAPPING for more information).  Then, if the terminal type begins with a question mark
       (“?”), the user is prompted for confirmation of the terminal type.  An empty response confirms the type,  or,
       another  type can be entered to specify a new type.  Once the terminal type has been determined, the terminfo
       entry for the terminal is retrieved.  If no terminfo entry is found for the type, the user  is  prompted  for
       another terminal type.

       Once  the  terminfo entry is retrieved, the window size, backspace, interrupt and line kill characters (among
       many other things) are set and the terminal and tab initialization strings are sent  to  the  standard  error
       output.   Finally,  if  the  erase,  interrupt and line kill characters have changed, or are not set to their
       default values, their values are displayed to the standard error output.  Use the -c or -w option  to  select
       only the window sizing versus the other initialization.  If neither option is given, both are assumed.

       When  invoked  as  reset,  tset  sets cooked and echo modes, turns off cbreak and raw modes, turns on newline
       translation and resets any unset special characters to their default values before doing  the  terminal  ini‐
       tialization  described  above.   This is useful after a program dies leaving a terminal in an abnormal state.
       Note, you may have to type

           <LF>reset<LF>

       (the line-feed character is normally control-J) to get the terminal to work, as carriage-return may no longer
       work in the abnormal state.  Also, the terminal will often not echo the command.

       The options are as follows:

       -c   Set control characters and modes.

       -e   Set the erase character to ch.

       -I   Do not send the terminal or tab initialization strings to the terminal.

       -i   Set the interrupt character to ch.

       -k   Set the line kill character to ch.

       -m   Specify a mapping from a port type to a terminal.  See the section TERMINAL TYPE MAPPING for more infor‐
            mation.

       -Q   Do not display any values for the erase, interrupt and line kill characters.  Normally tset displays the
            values for control characters which differ from the system's default values.

       -q   The  terminal  type is displayed to the standard output, and the terminal is not initialized in any way.
            The option `-' by itself is equivalent but archaic.

       -r   Print the terminal type to the standard error output.

       -s   Print the sequence of shell commands to initialize the environment variable TERM to the standard output.
            See the section SETTING THE ENVIRONMENT for details.

       -V   reports the version of ncurses which was used in this program, and exits.

       -w   Resize  the  window  to  match  the  size  deduced  via  setupterm.  Normally this has no effect, unless
            setupterm is not able to detect the window size.

       The arguments for the -e, -i, and -k options may either be entered as actual characters or by using the `hat'
       notation, i.e., control-h may be specified as “^H” or “^h”.

SETTING THE ENVIRONMENT
       It  is  often desirable to enter the terminal type and information about the terminal's capabilities into the
       shell's environment.  This is done using the -s option.

       When the -s option is specified, the commands to enter the information into the shell's environment are writ‐
       ten  to  the  standard  output.  If the SHELL environmental variable ends in “csh”, the commands are for csh,
       otherwise, they are for sh.  Note, the csh commands set and unset  the  shell  variable  noglob,  leaving  it
       unset.  The following line in the .login or .profile files will initialize the environment correctly:

           eval `tset -s options ... `

TERMINAL TYPE MAPPING
       When  the terminal is not hardwired into the system (or the current system information is incorrect) the ter‐
       minal type derived from the /etc/ttys file or the TERM environmental variable is often something generic like
       network, dialup, or unknown.  When tset is used in a startup script it is often desirable to provide informa‐
       tion about the type of terminal used on such ports.

       The purpose of the -m option is to map from some set of conditions to a terminal type, that is, to tell  tset
       “If I'm on this port at a particular speed, guess that I'm on that kind of terminal”.

       The  argument to the -m option consists of an optional port type, an optional operator, an optional baud rate
       specification, an optional colon (“:”) character and a terminal type.  The port type is a  string  (delimited
       by  either  the  operator or the colon character).  The operator may be any combination of “>”, “<”, “@”, and
       “!”; “>” means greater than, “<” means less than, “@” means equal to and “!” inverts the sense of  the  test.
       The  baud  rate  is  specified as a number and is compared with the speed of the standard error output (which
       should be the control terminal).  The terminal type is a string.

       If the terminal type is not specified on the command line, the -m mappings are applied to the terminal  type.
       If  the  port  type  and baud rate match the mapping, the terminal type specified in the mapping replaces the
       current type.  If more than one mapping is specified, the first applicable mapping is used.

       For example, consider the following mapping: dialup>9600:vt100.  The port type is dialup , the operator is >,
       the  baud rate specification is 9600, and the terminal type is vt100.  The result of this mapping is to spec‐
       ify that if the terminal type is dialup, and the baud rate is greater than 9600  baud,  a  terminal  type  of
       vt100 will be used.

       If  no baud rate is specified, the terminal type will match any baud rate.  If no port type is specified, the
       terminal type will match any port type.  For example, -m dialup:vt100 -m :?xterm will cause any dialup  port,
       regardless of baud rate, to match the terminal type vt100, and any non-dialup port type to match the terminal
       type ?xterm.  Note, because of the leading question mark, the user will be queried on a default  port  as  to
       whether they are actually using an xterm terminal.

       No  whitespace characters are permitted in the -m option argument.  Also, to avoid problems with meta-charac‐
       ters, it is suggested that the entire -m option argument be placed within single quote characters,  and  that
       csh users insert a backslash character (“\”) before any exclamation marks (“!”).

HISTORY
       The tset command appeared in BSD 3.0.  The ncurses implementation was lightly adapted from the 4.4BSD sources
       for a terminfo environment by Eric S. Raymond <esr@snark.thyrsus.com>.

COMPATIBILITY
       The tset utility has been provided for  backward-compatibility  with  BSD  environments  (under  most  modern
       UNIXes,  /etc/inittab  and  getty(1) can set TERM appropriately for each dial-up line; this obviates what was
       tset's most important use).  This implementation behaves like 4.4BSD tset, with a  few  exceptions  specified
       here.

       The -S option of BSD tset no longer works; it prints an error message to stderr and dies.  The -s option only
       sets TERM, not TERMCAP.  Both of these changes are because the TERMCAP variable is no longer supported  under
       terminfo-based  ncurses, which makes tset -S useless (we made it die noisily rather than silently induce los‐
       sage).

       There was an undocumented 4.4BSD feature that invoking tset via a link named `TSET` (or via  any  other  name
       beginning with an upper-case letter) set the terminal to use upper-case only.  This feature has been omitted.

       The -A, -E, -h, -u and -v options were deleted from the tset utility in 4.4BSD.  None of them were documented
       in 4.3BSD and all are of limited utility at best.  The -a, -d, and -p options are similarly not documented or
       useful,  but were retained as they appear to be in widespread use.  It is strongly recommended that any usage
       of these three options be changed to use the -m option instead.  The -n option remains, but  has  no  effect.
       The -adnp options are therefore omitted from the usage summary above.

       It is still permissible to specify the -e, -i, and -k options without arguments, although it is strongly rec‐
       ommended that such usage be fixed to explicitly specify the character.

       As of 4.4BSD, executing tset as reset no longer implies the -Q option.  Also, the interaction between  the  -
       option and the terminal argument in some historic implementations of tset has been removed.

ENVIRONMENT
       The tset command uses these environment variables:

       SHELL
            tells tset whether to initialize TERM using sh or csh syntax.

       TERM Denotes your terminal type.  Each terminal type is distinct, though many are similar.

       TERMCAP
            may  denote  the location of a termcap database.  If it is not an absolute pathname, e.g., begins with a
            `/', tset removes the variable from the environment before looking for the terminal description.

FILES
       /etc/ttys
            system port name to terminal type mapping database (BSD versions only).

       /etc/terminfo
            terminal capability database

SEE ALSO
       csh(1), sh(1), stty(1), curs_terminfo(3X), tty(4), terminfo(5), ttys(5), environ(7)

       This describes ncurses version 5.9 (patch 20140118).



                                                                                                             tset(1)
