UCONV(1)                                           ICU 52.1 Manual                                          UCONV(1)



NAME
       uconv - convert data from one encoding to another

SYNOPSIS
       uconv  [ -h, -?, --help ] [ -V, --version ] [ -s, --silent ] [ -v, --verbose ] [ -l, --list | -l, --list-code
       code | --default-code | -L, --list-transliterators ] [ --canon ] [ -x transliteration ] [ --to-callback call‐
       back  |  -c  ] [ --from-callback callback | -i ] [ --callback callback ] [ --fallback | --no-fallback ] [ -b,
       --block-size size ] [ -f,  --from-code  encoding  ]  [  -t,  --to-code  encoding  ]  [  --add-signature  ]  [
       --remove-signature ] [ -o, --output file ] [ file...  ]

DESCRIPTION
       uconv  converts,  or  transcodes,  each  given  file (or its standard input if no file is specified) from one
       encoding to another.  The transcoding is done using Unicode as a pivot encoding  (i.e.  the  data  are  first
       transcoded from their original encoding to Unicode, and then from Unicode to the destination encoding).

       If  an  encoding is not specified or is -, the default encoding is used. Thus, calling uconv with no encoding
       provides an easy way to validate and sanitize data files for further consumption by tools requiring  data  in
       the default encoding.

       When  calling  uconv,  it  is possible to specify callbacks that are used to handle invalid characters in the
       input, or characters that cannot be transcoded to the destination  encoding.  Some  encodings,  for  example,
       offer  a default substitution character that can be used to represent the occurence of such characters in the
       input. Other callbacks offer a useful visual representation of the invalid data.

       uconv can also run the specified transliteration on the transcoded data, in which case  transliteration  will
       happen  as  an intermediate step, after the data have been transcoded to Unicode.  The transliteration can be
       either a list of semicolon-separated transliterator names, or an arbitrarily complex set of rules in the  ICU
       transliteration rules format.

       For  transcoding  purposes, uconv options are compatible with those of iconv(1), making it easy to replace it
       in scripts. It is not necessarily the case, however, that the encoding names used by uconv and  ICU  are  the
       same as the ones used by iconv(1).  Also, options that provide informational data, such as the -l, --list one
       offered by some iconv(1) variants such as GNU's, produce data in a slightly different  and  easier  to  parse
       format.

OPTIONS
       -h, -?, --help
              Print help about usage and exit.

       -V, --version
              Print the version of uconv and exit.

       -s, --silent
              Suppress messages during execution.

       -v, --verbose
              Display extra informative messages during execution.

       -l, --list
              List all the available encodings and exit.

       -l, --list-code code
              List only the code encoding and exit. If code is not a proper encoding, exit with an error.

       --default-code
              List only the name of the default encoding and exit.

       -L, --list-transliterators
              List all the available transliterators and exit.

       --canon
              If  used  with  -l, --list or --default-code, the list of encodings is produced in a format compatible
              with convrtrs.txt(5).  If used with -L, --list-transliterators, print only one transliterator name per
              line.

       -x transliteration
              Run the given transliteration on the transcoded Unicode data, and use the transliterated data as input
              for the transcoding to the the destination encoding.

       --to-callback callback
              Use callback to handle characters that cannot be transcoded to the destination encoding.  See  section
              CALLBACKS for details on valid callbacks.

       -c     Omit invalid characters from the output.  Same as --to-callback skip.

       --from-callback callback
              Use  callback  to  handle characters that cannot be transcoded from the original encoding. See section
              CALLBACKS for details on valid callbacks.

       -i     Ignore invalid sequences in the input.  Same as --from-callback skip.

       --callback callback
              Use callback to handle both characters that cannot be transcoded from the original encoding and  char‐
              acters  that  cannot  be  transcoded to the destination encoding. See section CALLBACKS for details on
              valid callbacks.

       --fallback
              Use the fallback mapping when transcoding from Unicode to the destination encoding.

       --no-fallback
              Do not use the fallback mapping when transcoding from Unicode to the destination  encoding.   This  is
              the default.

       -b, --block-size size
              Read input in blocks of size bytes at a time. The default block size is 4096.

       -f, --from-code encoding
              Set the original encoding of the data to encoding.

       -t, --to-code encoding
              Transcode the data to encoding.

       --add-signature
              Add  a U+FEFF Unicode signature character (BOM) if the output charset supports it and does not add one
              anyway.

       --remove-signature
              Remove a U+FEFF Unicode signature character (BOM).

       -o, --output file
              Write the transcoded data to file.

CALLBACKS
       uconv supports specifying callbacks to handle invalid data. Callbacks can  be  set  for  both  directions  of
       transcoding:  from the original encoding to Unicode, with the --from-callback option, and from Unicode to the
       destination encoding, with the --to-callback option.

       The following is a list of valid callback names, along with a description of  their  behavior.  The  list  of
       callbacks actually supported by uconv is displayed when it is called with -h, --help.

       substitute       Write  the  the  encoding's substitute sequence, or the Unicode replacement character U+FFFD
                        when transcoding to Unicode.

       skip             Ignore the invalid data.

       stop             Stop with an error when encountering invalid data.  This is the default callback.

       escape           Same as escape-icu.

       escape-icu       Replace the missing characters with a string of the format %Uhhhh for  plane  0  characters,
                        and  %Uhhhh%Uhhhh  for planes 1 and above characters, where hhhh is the hexadecimal value of
                        one of the UTF-16 code units representing the character. Characters from planes 1 and  above
                        are written as a pair of UTF-16 surrogate code units.

       escape-java      Replace  the  missing  characters with a string of the format \uhhhh for plane 0 characters,
                        and \uhhhh\uhhhh for planes 1 and above characters, where hhhh is the hexadecimal  value  of
                        one  of the UTF-16 code units representing the character. Characters from planes 1 and above
                        are written as a pair of UTF-16 surrogate code units.

       escape-c         Replace the missing characters with a string of the format \uhhhh for  plane  0  characters,
                        and  \Uhhhhhhhh for planes 1 and above characters, where hhhh and hhhhhhhh are the hexadeci‐
                        mal values of the Unicode codepoint.

       escape-xml       Same as escape-xml-hex.

       escape-xml-hex   Replace the missing characters with a string of the format &#xhhhh;, where hhhh is the hexa‐
                        decimal value of the Unicode codepoint.

       escape-xml-dec   Replace  the missing characters with a string of the format &#nnnn;, where nnnn is the deci‐
                        mal value of the Unicode codepoint.

       escape-unicode   Replace the missing characters with a string of the format {U+hhhh}, where hhhh is the hexa‐
                        decimal  value  of the Unicode codepoint.  That hexadecimal string is of variable length and
                        can use from 4 to 6 digits.  This is the format universally used to denote a  Unicode  code‐
                        point  in the litterature, delimited by curly braces for easy recognition of those substitu‐
                        tions in the output.

EXAMPLES
       Convert data from a given encoding to the platform encoding:

           $ uconv -f encoding

       Check if a file contains valid data for a given encoding:

           $ uconv -f encoding -c file >/dev/null

       Convert a UTF-8 file to a given encoding and ensure that the resulting text is good for any version of HTML:

           $ uconv -f utf-8 -t encoding \
               --callback escape-xml-dec file

       Display the names of the Unicode code points in a UTF-file:

           $ uconv -f utf-8 -x any-name file

       Print the name of a Unicode code point whose value is known (U+30AB in this example):

           $ echo '\u30ab' | uconv -x 'hex-any; any-name'; echo
           {KATAKANA LETTER KA}{LINE FEED}
           $

       (The names are delimited by curly braces.  Also, the name of the line terminator is also displayed.)

       Normalize UTF-8 data using Unicode NFKC, remove all control characters, and map Katakana to Hiragana:

           $ uconv -f utf-8 -t utf-8 \
                 -x '::nfkc; [:Cc:] >; ::katakana-hiragana;'

CAVEATS AND BUGS
       uconv does report errors as occuring at the first invalid byte encountered. This may be confusing to users of
       GNU iconv(1), which reports errors as occuring at the first byte of an invalid sequence. For multi-byte char‐
       acter sets or encodings, this means that uconv error positions may be at a later offset in the  input  stream
       than would be the case with GNU iconv(1).

       The  reporting  of  error  positions when a transliterator is used may be inaccurate or unavailable, in which
       case uconv will report the offset in the output stream at which the error occured.

AUTHORS
       Jonas Utterstroem
       Yves Arrouye

VERSION
       52.1

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2000-2005 IBM, Inc. and others.

SEE ALSO
       iconv(1)



ICU MANPAGE                                          2005-jul-1                                             UCONV(1)
