unpack200(1)                                    Java Deployment Tools                                   unpack200(1)



NAME
       unpack200 - Transforms a packed file produced by pack200(1) into a JAR file for web deployment.

SYNOPSIS
       unpack200 [ options ] input-file JAR-file


       options
              The command-line options. See Options.

       input-file
              Name of the input file, which can be a pack200 gzip file or a pack200 file. The input can also be JAR
              file produced by pack200(1) with an effort of 0, in which case the contents of the input file are
              copied to the output JAR file with the Pack200 marker.

       JAR-file
              Name of the output JAR file.

DESCRIPTION
       The unpack200 command is a native implementation that transforms a packed file produced by pack200(1) into a
       JAR file. A typical usage follows. In the following example, the myarchive.jar file is produced from
       myarchive.pack.gz with the default unpack200 command settings.

       unpack200 myarchive.pack.gz myarchive.jar


OPTIONS
       -Hvalue --deflate-hint=value
              Sets the deflation to be true, false, or keep on all entries within a JAR file. The default mode is
              keep. If the value is true or false, then the --deflate=hint option overrides the default behavior and
              sets the deflation mode on all entries within the output JAR file.

       -r --remove-pack-file
              Removes the input pack file.

       -v --verbose
              Displays minimal messages. Multiple specifications of this option displays more verbose messages.

       -q --quiet
              Specifies quiet operation with no messages.

       -lfilename --log-file=filename
              Specifies a log file where output messages are logged.

       -? -h --help
              Prints help information about the unpack200 command.

       -V --version
              Prints version information about the unpack200 command.

       -Joption
              Passes option to the Java Virtual Machine, where option is one of the options described on the
              reference page for the Java application launcher. For example, -J-Xms48m sets the startup memory to 48
              MB. See java(1).

NOTES
       This command should not be confused with the unpack command. They are distinctly separate products.

       The Java SE API Specification provided with the JDK is the superseding authority in case of discrepancies.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values are returned: 0 for successful completion, and a value that is greater than 0 when
       an error occurred.

SEE ALSO
       · pack200(1)

       · jar(1)

       · jarsigner(1)

       · Pack200 and Compression at http://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/deployment/deployment-
         guide/pack200.html

       · The Java SE Technical Documentation page at http://docs.oracle.com/javase/



JDK 8                                             21 November 2013                                      unpack200(1)
