USB_MODESWITCH(1)                              General Commands Manual                             USB_MODESWITCH(1)



NAME
       usb_modeswitch - control the mode of 'multi-state' USB devices

SYNOPSIS
       usb_modeswitch [-heWQDIvpVPmM23rwKdHSOBGTNALnsRiuagft] [-c filename]

DESCRIPTION
       Several  new USB devices have their proprietary Windows drivers onboard, most of them WWAN and WLAN  dongles.
       When plugged in for the first time, they act like a flash storage and start  installing  the  Windows  driver
       from  there.  If  the  driver  is  already installed, it makes the storage device disappear and a new device,
       mainly composite with modem ports, shows up.

       On Linux, in most cases the drivers are available as kernel modules, such as "usbserial"  or  "option".  How‐
       ever,  the  device  initially binds to "usb-storage" by default. usb_modeswitch can then send a provided bulk
       message (most likely a mass storage command) to the device; this message has to be  determined  by  analyzing
       the actions of the Windows driver.

       In  some cases, USB control commands are used for switching. These cases are handled by custom functions, and
       no bulk message needs to be provided.

       Usually, the program is distributed with a set of configurations for many known devices, which allows a fully
       automatic  handling  of  a  device upon insertion, made possible by combining usb_modeswitch with the wrapper
       script usb_modeswitch_dispatcher which is launched by the udev daemon.

       Note that usb_modeswitch itself has no specific Linux dependencies.


OPTIONS
       This program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long options starting with two dashes ('--').  A
       summary of options is included below.

       -h --help Show summary of options.

       -e --version
                 Print version information and exit

       -v --default-vendor NUM
                 Vendor  ID to look for (mandatory), usually given as hex number (example: 0x12d1).  Each USB device
                 is identified by a number officialy assigned to the vendor by the USB association and a number  for
                 the respective model (product ID) chosen by the vendor

       -p --default-product NUM
                 Product ID to look for (mandatory)

       -V --target-vendor NUM
                 Target  vendor ID. When given will be searched for and detected initially for information purposes.
                 If success checking (option -s) is active, providing target IDs (vendor/product) or target class is
                 recommended

       -j --find-mbim
                 Return configuration number with MBIM interface and exit.

       -P --target-product NUM
                 Target product ID

       -b --bus-num NUM

       -g --device-num NUM
                 If  bus and device number are provided, the handling of a specific device on a specific USB port is
                 guaranteed, in contrast to using only the USB ID. This is important if there are  multiple  similar
                 devices on a system

       -C --target-class NUM
                 Target  Device  Class  according  to  the  USB specification. Some devices keep their original ven‐
                 dor/product ID after successful switching. To prevent them from being  treated  again,  the  device
                 class  can  be checked.  For unswitched devices it is always 8 (storage class), for switched modems
                 it is often 0xff (vendor specific). In composite modes, the class of the first interface is watched

       -m --message-endpoint NUM
                 A specific endpoint to use for data transfers. Only for testing  purposes;  usually  endpoints  are
                 determined from the device attributes

       -M --message-content STRING
                 A bulk message to send as a switching command. Provided as a hexadecimal string

       -2, -3  --message-content2, --message-content3 STRING
                 Additional bulk messages to send as switching commands. Provided as hexadecimal strings.  When used
                 with mass storage commands, setting --need-response is strongly advised to comply  with  specifica‐
                 tions and to avoid likely errors

       -w --release-delay NUM
                 After  issuing  all  bulk  messages,  wait  for  NUM  milliseconds  before releasing the interface.
                 Required for some modems on older systems (especially after an EJECT message)

       -n --need-response
                 Read the response (command status wrapper) to a mass storage command transfer.  Some  devices  have
                 trouble  switching if the response is not read; most are disappearing right away. When sending mul‐
                 tiple mass storage commands with -2 and -3, this may need to be set to avoid transfer errors

       -r --response-endpoint NUM
                 Try to read the response to a storage command from there if option -n is active. Only  for  testing
                 purposes; usually endpoints are determined from the device attributes

       -K --std-eject
                 Apply  the  standard SCSI sequence of "Allow Medium Removal" and "Eject". Implies -n. One 'Message'
                 can be added with -M that will be transmitted after the eject sequence

       -d --detach-only
                 Just detach the current driver. This is sufficient for some early devices to  switch  successfully.
                 Otherwise  this  feature  can  be used as a 'scalpel' for special cases, like separating the driver
                 from individual interfaces

       -H --huawei-mode
                 Send a special control message used by older Huawei devices

       -S --sierra-mode
                 Send a special control message used by Sierra devices

       -G --gct-mode
                 Send a special control message used by GCT chipsets

       -T --kobil-mode
                 Send a special control message used by Kobil devices

       -N --sequans-mode
                 Send a special control message used by Sequans chipset

       -A --mobileaction-mode
                 Send a special control message used by the MobileAction device

       -B --qisda-mode
                 Send a special control message used by Qisda devices

       -E --quanta-mode
                 Send a special control message used by Quanta devices

       -F --pantech-mode
                 Send a special control message used by Pantech devices

       -Z --blackberry-mode
                 Send a special control message used by some newer Blackberry devices

       -O --sony-mode
                 Apply a special sequence used by Sony Ericsson devices. Implies option --check-success

       -L --cisco-mode
                 Send a sequence of bulk messages used by Cisco devices

       -R --reset-usb
                 Send a USB reset command to the device. Can be combined with any switching method or  stand  alone.
                 It is always done as the last step of all device interactions.  Few devices need it to complete the
                 switching; apart from that it may be useful during testing

       -c --config-file FILENAME
                 Use a specific config file. If any ID or switching options are given as  command  line  parameters,
                 this  option  is ignored.  In that case all mandatory parameters have to be provided on the command
                 line

       -f --long-config STRING
                 Provide device details in config file syntax as a multiline string on the command line

       -t --stdinput
                 Read the device details in config file syntax from standard input, e.g. redirected from  a  command
                 pipe (multiline text)

       -Q --quiet
                 Don't show progress or error messages

       -W --verbose
                 Print all settings before running and show libusb debug messages

       -D --sysmode
                 Changes  the  behaviour  of  the program slightly. A success message including the effective target
                 device ID is put out and a syslog notice is issued. Mainly for integration with a wrapper script

       -s --check-success NUM
                 After switching, keep checking for the result up to max. NUM seconds. If target IDs or target class
                 were provided, their appearance indicates certain success. Otherwise the disconnection of the orig‐
                 inal device is rated as likely proof

       -I --no-inquire
                 do not obtain SCSI attributes from device (default is on). For proper identification  of  differing
                 devices  the  attributes  of the storage part provide valuable information.  This is not needed for
                 devices that are known and supported

       -i --interface NUM
                 Select initial USB interface (default: 0). Only for testing purposes

       -u --configuration NUM
                 Select USB configuration (applied after any other possible switching actions)

       -a --altsetting NUM
                 Select alternative USB interface setting (applied after switching). Mainly for testing

AUTHOR
       This manual page was originally written by Didier Raboud (didier@raboud.com) for the Debian system. Additions
       made  by  Josua Dietze. Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms
       of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.


       The   complete   text   of   the   current    GNU    General    Public    License    can    be    found    in
       http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.txt




                                                                                                   USB_MODESWITCH(1)
