VACUUMDB(1)                                PostgreSQL 9.3.16 Documentation                               VACUUMDB(1)



NAME
       vacuumdb - garbage-collect and analyze a PostgreSQL database

SYNOPSIS
       vacuumdb [connection-option...] [option...] [ --table | -t table [( column [,...] )] ]...  [dbname]

       vacuumdb [connection-option...] [option...] --all | -a

DESCRIPTION
       vacuumdb is a utility for cleaning a PostgreSQL database.  vacuumdb will also generate internal statistics
       used by the PostgreSQL query optimizer.

       vacuumdb is a wrapper around the SQL command VACUUM(7). There is no effective difference between vacuuming
       and analyzing databases via this utility and via other methods for accessing the server.

OPTIONS
       vacuumdb accepts the following command-line arguments:

       -a, --all
           Vacuum all databases.

       [-d] dbname, [--dbname=]dbname
           Specifies the name of the database to be cleaned or analyzed. If this is not specified and -a (or --all)
           is not used, the database name is read from the environment variable PGDATABASE. If that is not set, the
           user name specified for the connection is used.

       -e, --echo
           Echo the commands that vacuumdb generates and sends to the server.

       -f, --full
           Perform “full” vacuuming.

       -F, --freeze
           Aggressively “freeze” tuples.

       -q, --quiet
           Do not display progress messages.

       -t table [ (column [,...]) ], --table=table [ (column [,...]) ]
           Clean or analyze table only. Column names can be specified only in conjunction with the --analyze or
           --analyze-only options. Multiple tables can be vacuumed by writing multiple -t switches.

               Tip
               If you specify columns, you probably have to escape the parentheses from the shell. (See examples
               below.)

       -v, --verbose
           Print detailed information during processing.

       -V, --version
           Print the vacuumdb version and exit.

       -z, --analyze
           Also calculate statistics for use by the optimizer.

       -Z, --analyze-only
           Only calculate statistics for use by the optimizer (no vacuum).

       -?, --help
           Show help about vacuumdb command line arguments, and exit.

       vacuumdb also accepts the following command-line arguments for connection parameters:

       -h host, --host=host
           Specifies the host name of the machine on which the server is running. If the value begins with a slash,
           it is used as the directory for the Unix domain socket.

       -p port, --port=port
           Specifies the TCP port or local Unix domain socket file extension on which the server is listening for
           connections.

       -U username, --username=username
           User name to connect as.

       -w, --no-password
           Never issue a password prompt. If the server requires password authentication and a password is not
           available by other means such as a .pgpass file, the connection attempt will fail. This option can be
           useful in batch jobs and scripts where no user is present to enter a password.

       -W, --password
           Force vacuumdb to prompt for a password before connecting to a database.

           This option is never essential, since vacuumdb will automatically prompt for a password if the server
           demands password authentication. However, vacuumdb will waste a connection attempt finding out that the
           server wants a password. In some cases it is worth typing -W to avoid the extra connection attempt.

       --maintenance-db=dbname
           Specifies the name of the database to connect to discover what other databases should be vacuumed. If not
           specified, the postgres database will be used, and if that does not exist, template1 will be used.

ENVIRONMENT
       PGDATABASE, PGHOST, PGPORT, PGUSER
           Default connection parameters

       This utility, like most other PostgreSQL utilities, also uses the environment variables supported by libpq
       (see Section 31.14, “Environment Variables”, in the documentation).

DIAGNOSTICS
       In case of difficulty, see VACUUM(7) and psql(1) for discussions of potential problems and error messages.
       The database server must be running at the targeted host. Also, any default connection settings and
       environment variables used by the libpq front-end library will apply.

NOTES
       vacuumdb might need to connect several times to the PostgreSQL server, asking for a password each time. It is
       convenient to have a ~/.pgpass file in such cases. See Section 31.15, “The Password File”, in the
       documentation for more information.

EXAMPLES
       To clean the database test:

           $ vacuumdb test

       To clean and analyze for the optimizer a database named bigdb:

           $ vacuumdb --analyze bigdb

       To clean a single table foo in a database named xyzzy, and analyze a single column bar of the table for the
       optimizer:

           $ vacuumdb --analyze --verbose --table 'foo(bar)' xyzzy

SEE ALSO
       VACUUM(7)



PostgreSQL 9.3.16                                       2017                                             VACUUMDB(1)
