VFTOVP(1)                                      General Commands Manual                                     VFTOVP(1)



NAME
       vftovp - convert virtual font (vf) files to virtual property lists (vpl)

SYNOPSIS
       vftovp [OPTIONS] vf_name[.vf] [tfm_name[.tfm] [vpl_name[.vpl]]]

DESCRIPTION
       This  manual  page  is not meant to be exhaustive.  The complete documentation for this version of TeX can be
       found in the info file or manual Web2C: A TeX implementation.

       The vftovp program translates a (program-oriented) virtual font file and its  accompanying  TeX  font  metric
       file  to a (human-oriented) property list file.  Thus, the virtual font can be edited, and its exact contents
       can be displayed mnemonically.  It also serves as a VF-file validating program;  if  no  error  messages  are
       given, the input files are correct.

       The filenames are extended with the appropriate extension if necessary.

OPTIONS
       -charcode-format=format
              The  argument  format specifies how character codes are output in the VPL file.  By default, only let‐
              ters and digits are output using the C integer code (i.e., in ASCII); the others are output in  octal.
              (Unless  the  font's  coding  scheme  starts  with  TeX math sy or TeX math ex, when all are output in
              octal.)  If format is ascii, all character codes that correspond to graphic  characters,  besides  the
              left and right parentheses, are output in ASCII.  On the other hand, if format is octal, all character
              codes are output in octal.

       -verbose
              Without this option, vftovp operates silently.  With it, a banner and progress report are  printed  on
              stdout.

ENVIRONMENT
       vftovp  looks  for  vf_name using the environment variable VFFONTS.  If that is not set, it uses the variable
       TEXFONTS.  If that is not set, it uses the system default.

       See tex(1) for the details of the searching.

SEE ALSO
       pltotf(1), tftopl(1), vptovf(1).

AUTHORS
       Donald E. Knuth wrote the program, based in part on an idea of  David  Fuchs,  starting  with  the  code  for
       tftopl(1).  Karl Berry adapted it for compilation with web2c.



Web2C 2013                                        19 December 1994                                         VFTOVP(1)
