W(1)                                                User Commands                                               W(1)



NAME
       w - Show who is logged on and what they are doing.

SYNOPSIS
       w [options] user [...]

DESCRIPTION
       w  displays  information about the users currently on the machine, and their processes.  The header shows, in
       this order, the current time, how long the system has been running, how many users are currently  logged  on,
       and the system load averages for the past 1, 5, and 15 minutes.

       The  following  entries  are  displayed for each user: login name, the tty name, the remote host, login time,
       idle time, JCPU, PCPU, and the command line of their current process.

       The JCPU time is the time used by all processes attached to the tty.  It does  not  include  past  background
       jobs, but does include currently running background jobs.

       The PCPU time is the time used by the current process, named in the "what" field.

COMMAND-LINE OPTIONS
       -h, --no-header
              Don't print the header.

       -u, --no-current
              Ignores  the username while figuring out the current process and cpu times.  To demonstrate this, do a
              "su" and do a "w" and a "w -u".

       -s, --short
              Use the short format.  Don't print the login time, JCPU or PCPU times.

       -f, --from
              Toggle printing the from (remote hostname) field.  The default as released is for the  from  field  to
              not be printed, although your system administrator or distribution maintainer may have compiled a ver‐
              sion in which the from field is shown by default.

       --help Display help text and exit.

       -i, --ip-addr
              Display IP address instead of hostname for from field.

       -V, --version
              Display version information.

       -o, --old-style
              Old style output.  Prints blank space for idle times less than one minute.

       user   Show information about the specified user only.

ENVIRONMENT
       PROCPS_USERLEN
              Override the default width of the username column.  Defaults to 8.

       PROCPS_FROMLEN
              Override the default width of the from column.  Defaults to 16.

FILES
       /var/run/utmp
              information about who is currently logged on

       /proc  process information

SEE ALSO
       free(1), ps(1), top(1), uptime(1), utmp(5), who(1)

AUTHORS
       w was re-written almost entirely by Charles Blake, based on the version by Larry Greenfield  ⟨greenfie@gauss.
       rutgers.edu⟩ and Michael K. Johnson ⟨johnsonm@redhat.com⟩

REPORTING BUGS
       Please send bug reports to ⟨procps@freelists.org⟩



procps-ng                                             May 2012                                                  W(1)
