WATCH(1)                                            User Commands                                           WATCH(1)



NAME
       watch - execute a program periodically, showing output fullscreen

SYNOPSIS
       watch [options] command

DESCRIPTION
       watch  runs  command repeatedly, displaying its output and errors (the first screenfull).  This allows you to
       watch the program output change over time.  By default, the program is run  every  2  seconds.   By  default,
       watch will run until interrupted.

OPTIONS
       -d, --differences [permanent]
              Highlight the differences between successive updates.  Option will read optional argument that changes
              highlight to be permanent, allowing to see what has changed at least once since first iteration.

       -n, --interval seconds
              Specify update interval.  The command will not allow quicker than 0.1 second interval,  in  which  the
              smaller values are converted.

       -p, --precise
              Make watch attempt to run command every interval seconds. Try it with ntptime and notice how the frac‐
              tional seconds stays (nearly) the same, as opposed to normal mode where they continuously increase.

       -t, --no-title
              Turn off the header showing the interval, command, and current time at the top of the display, as well
              as the following blank line.

       -b, --beep
              Beep if command has a non-zero exit.

       -e, --errexit
              Freeze updates on command error, and exit after a key press.

       -g, --chgexit
              Exit when the output of command changes.

       -c, --color
              Interpret ANSI color sequences.

       -x, --exec
              command  is  given  to  sh  -c  which  means that you may need to use extra quoting to get the desired
              effect.  This with the --exec option, which passes the command to exec(2) instead.

       -h, --help
              Display help text and exit.

       -v, --version
              Display version information and exit.

NOTE
       Note that POSIX option processing is used (i.e., option processing stops at the first  non-option  argument).
       This means that flags after command don't get interpreted by watch itself.

EXAMPLES
       To watch for mail, you might do

              watch -n 60 from

       To watch the contents of a directory change, you could use

              watch -d ls -l

       If you're only interested in files owned by user joe, you might use

              watch -d 'ls -l | fgrep joe'

       To see the effects of quoting, try these out

              watch echo $$
              watch echo '$$'
              watch echo "'"'$$'"'"

       To see the effect of precision time keeping, try adding -p to

              watch -n 10 sleep 1

       You can watch for your administrator to install the latest kernel with

              watch uname -r

       (Note  that  -p  isn't  guaranteed  to work across reboots, especially in the face of ntpdate or other bootup
       time-changing mechanisms)

BUGS
       Upon terminal resize, the screen will not be correctly repainted until the next scheduled update.  All --dif‐
       ferences highlighting is lost on that update as well.

       Non-printing  characters  are  stripped from program output.  Use "cat -v" as part of the command pipeline if
       you want to see them.

       Combining Characters that are supposed to display on the character at the last column on the screen may  dis‐
       play one column early, or they may not display at all.

       Combining Characters never count as different in --differences mode.  Only the base character counts.

       Blank lines directly after a line which ends in the last column do not display.

       --precise  mode  doesn't  yet  have  advanced temporal distortion technology to compensate for a command that
       takes more than interval seconds to execute.  watch also can get into a state where it  rapid-fires  as  many
       executions  of  command  as  it  can to catch up from a previous executions running longer than interval (for
       example, netstat taking ages on a DNS lookup).

EXIT STATUS
              0      Success.
              1      Various failures.
              2      Forking the process to watch failed.
              3      Replacing child process stdout with write side pipe failed.
              4      Command execution failed.
              5      Closign child process write pipe failed.
              7      IPC pipe creation failed.
              8      Getting child process return value with waitpid(2) failed, or command exited up on error.
              other  The watch will propagate command exit status as child exit status.
AUTHORS
       The original watch was written by Tony Rems ⟨rembo@unisoft.com⟩ in 1991, with mods and corrections  by  Fran‐
       cois  Pinard.   It was reworked and new features added by Mike Coleman ⟨mkc@acm.org⟩ in 1999. The beep, exec,
       and error handling features were added by Morty Abzug ⟨morty@frakir.org⟩ in 2008.   On  a  not  so  dark  and
       stormy morning in March of 2003, Anthony DeRobertis ⟨asd@suespammers.org⟩ got sick of his watches that should
       update every minute eventually updating many seconds after the minute started, and added  microsecond  preci‐
       sion.  Unicode support was added in 2009 by Jarrod Lowe ⟨procps@rrod.net⟩



procps-ng                                             June 2011                                             WATCH(1)
