WHIPTAIL(1)                                    General Commands Manual                                   WHIPTAIL(1)



NAME
       whiptail - display dialog boxes from shell scripts

SYNOPSIS
       whiptail  [ --title title ] [ --backtitle backtitle ] [ --clear ] [ --default-item string ] [ --defaultno ] [
       --fb ] [ --nocancel ] [ --yes-button text ] [ --no-button text ] [ --ok-button text ] [ --cancel-button  text
       ] [ --noitem [ ] --output-fd fd ] [ --separate-output ] [ --scrolltext ] [ --topleft ] box-options

DESCRIPTION
       whiptail is a program that will let you present a variety of questions or display messages using dialog boxes
       from a shell script. Currently, these types of dialog boxes are implemented:

       yes/no box, menu box, input box, message box, text box, info box, checklist box, radiolist box gauge box, and
       password box.

OPTIONS
       --clear
              The  screen  will  be  cleared  to  the  screen attribute on exit.  This doesn't work in an xterm (and
              descendants) if alternate screen switching is enabled, because in  that  case  slang  writes  to  (and
              clears) an alternate screen.

       --defaultno
              The dialog box will open with the cursor over the No button.

       --default-item string
              Set  the default item in a menu box.  Normally the first item in the box is the default.

       --fb   Use full buttons. (By default, whiptail uses compact buttons).

       --nocancel
              The dialog box won't have a Cancel button.

       --yes-button text
              Set the text of the Yes button.

       --no-button text
              Set the text of the No button.

       --ok-button text
              Set the text of the Ok button.

       --cancel-button text
              Set the text of the Cancel button.

       --noitem
              The  menu, checklist and radiolist widgets will display tags only, not the item strings. The menu wid‐
              get still needs some items specified, but checklist and radiolist expect only tag and status.

       --separate-output
              For checklist widgets, output result one line at a time, with no quoting.  This facilitates parsing by
              another program.

       --output-fd fd
              Direct output to the given file descriptor.  Most whiptail scripts write to standard error, but  error
              messages  may  also  be written there, depending on your script.

       --title title
              Specifies a title string to be displayed at the top of the dialog box.

       --backtitle backtitle
              Specifies a backtitle string to be displayed on the backdrop, at the top of the screen.

       --scrolltext
              Force the display of a vertical scrollbar.

       --topleft
              Put window in top-left corner.

       Box Options

       --yesno text height width
              A yes/no dialog box of size height rows by width columns will be displayed. The  string  specified  by
              text  is displayed inside the dialog box. If this string is too long to be fit in one line, it will be
              automatically divided into multiple lines at appropriate places. The text string may also contain  the
              sub-string  "\n"  or  newline characters `\n' to control line breaking explicitly.  This dialog box is
              useful for asking questions that require the user to answer either yes or no.  The dialog  box  has  a
              Yes button and a No button, in which the user can switch between by pressing the TAB key.

       --msgbox text height width
              A message box is very similar to a yes/no box.  The only difference between a message box and a yes/no
              box is that a message box has only a single OK button. You can use this dialog box to display any mes‐
              sage you like.  After reading the message, the user can press the ENTER key so that whiptail will exit
              and the calling shell script can continue its operation.

       --infobox text height width
              An info box is basically a message box.  However, in this case, whiptail will exit  immediately  after
              displaying the message to the user. The screen is not cleared when whiptail exits, so that the message
              will remain on the screen until the calling shell script clears it later. This is useful when you want
              to inform the user that some operations are carrying on that may require some time to finish.

       --inputbox text height width [init]
              An  input  box is useful when you want to ask questions that require the user to input a string as the
              answer. If init is supplied it is used to initialize the input string.  When inputing the string,  the
              BACKSPACE  key  can  be used to correct typing errors. If the input string is longer than the width of
              the dialog box, the input field will be scrolled. On exit, the input string will be printed on stderr.

       --passwordbox text height width [init]
              A password box is similar to an input box, except the text the user enters is not displayed.  This  is
              useful  when  prompting  for  passwords  or  other sensitive information. Be aware that if anything is
              passed in "init", it will be visible in the system's process table to casual  snoopers.  Also,  it  is
              very confusing to the user to provide them with a default password they cannot see. For these reasons,
              using "init" is highly discouraged.

       --textbox file height width
              A text box lets you display the contents of a text file in a dialog box. It is like a simple text file
              viewer. The user can move through the file by using the UP/DOWN, PGUP/PGDN and HOME/END keys available
              on most keyboards.  If the lines are too long to be displayed in the box, the LEFT/RIGHT keys  can  be
              used  to  scroll  the  text  region horizontally. For more convenience, forward and backward searching
              functions are also provided.

       --menu text height width menu-height [ tag item ] ...
              As its name suggests, a menu box is a dialog box that can be used to present a list of choices in  the
              form  of  a  menu for the user to choose. Each menu entry consists of a tag string and an item string.
              The tag gives the entry a name to distinguish it from the other entries in the menu.  The  item  is  a
              short  description of the option that the entry represents. The user can move between the menu entries
              by pressing the UP/DOWN keys, the first letter of the tag as a hot-key. There are menu-height  entries
              displayed  in the menu at one time, but the menu will be scrolled if there are more entries than that.
              When whiptail exits, the tag of the chosen menu entry will be printed on stderr.

       --checklist text height width list-height [ tag item status ] ...
              A checklist box is similar to a menu box in that there are multiple entries presented in the form of a
              menu.   You can select and deselect items using the SPACE key.  The initial on/off state of each entry
              is specified by status.  On exit, a list of the tag strings of those entries that are turned  on  will
              be printed on stderr.


       --radiolist text height width list-height  [ tag item status ] ...
              A radiolist box is similar to a menu box.  The only difference is that you can indicate which entry is
              currently selected, by setting its status to on.


       --gauge text height width percent
              A gauge box displays a meter along the bottom of the box.  The meter indicates a percentage.  New per‐
              centages are read from standard input, one integer per line.  The meter is updated to reflect each new
              percentage.  If stdin is XXX, the first following line is a percentage  and  subsequent  lines  up  to
              another XXX are used for a new prompt.  The gauge exits when EOF is reached on stdin.


NOTES
       whiptail  interprets  arguments  starting  with a dash "-" as being arguments.  To avoid this, and start some
       text in, for example, a menubox item, with a dash, whiptail honours the getopt convention  of  accepting  the
       special argument "--" which means that all following arguments with dashes are to be treated verbatim and not
       parsed as options.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Exit status is 0 if whiptail is exited by pressing the Yes or OK button, and 1 if the No or Cancel button  is
       pressed.  Otherwise,  if errors occur inside whiptail or whiptail is exited by pressing the ESC key, the exit
       status is -1.

AUTHOR
       Based on the man page for dialog(1) by:

       Savio Lam (lam836@cs.cuhk.hk) - version 0.3

       Stuart Herbert (S.Herbert@sheffield.ac.uk) - patch for version 0.4

       Modifications for whiptail by:

       Enrique Zanardi (ezanard@debian.org)

       Alastair McKinstry (mckinstry@debian.org)



Whiptail Version 0.52.5                            31 January 2007                                       WHIPTAIL(1)
