WRITE(1)                                     BSD General Commands Manual                                    WRITE(1)

NAME
     write — send a message to another user

SYNOPSIS
     write user [tty]

DESCRIPTION
     The write utility allows you to communicate with other users, by copying lines from your terminal to theirs.

     When you run the write command, the user you are writing to gets a message of the form:

           Message from yourname@yourhost on yourtty at hh:mm ...

     Any further lines you enter will be copied to the specified user's terminal.  If the other user wants to reply,
     they must run write as well.

     When you are done, type an end-of-file or interrupt character.  The other user will see the message ‘EOF’ indi‐
     cating that the conversation is over.

     You can prevent people (other than the super-user) from writing to you with the mesg(1) command.

     If the user you want to write to is logged in on more than one terminal, you can specify which terminal to
     write to by specifying the terminal name as the second operand to the write command.  Alternatively, you can
     let write select one of the terminals - it will pick the one with the shortest idle time.  This is so that if
     the user is logged in at work and also dialed up from home, the message will go to the right place.

     The traditional protocol for writing to someone is that the string ‘-o’, either at the end of a line or on a
     line by itself, means that it is the other person's turn to talk.  The string ‘oo’ means that the person
     believes the conversation to be over.

SEE ALSO
     mesg(1), talk(1), wall(1), who(1)

HISTORY
     A write command appeared in Version 1 AT&T UNIX.

BUGS
     The sender's LC_CTYPE setting is used to determine which characters are safe to write to a terminal, not the
     receiver's (which write has no way of knowing).

     The write utility does not recognize multibyte characters.

BSD                                                 July 17, 2004                                                BSD
