RANLIB(1)                                       GNU Development Tools                                      RANLIB(1)



NAME
       ranlib - generate index to archive.

SYNOPSIS
       ranlib [--plugin name] [-DhHvVt] archive

DESCRIPTION
       ranlib generates an index to the contents of an archive and stores it in the archive.  The index lists each
       symbol defined by a member of an archive that is a relocatable object file.

       You may use nm -s or nm --print-armap to list this index.

       An archive with such an index speeds up linking to the library and allows routines in the library to call
       each other without regard to their placement in the archive.

       The GNU ranlib program is another form of GNU ar; running ranlib is completely equivalent to executing ar -s.

OPTIONS
       -h
       -H
       --help
           Show usage information for ranlib.

       -v
       -V
       --version
           Show the version number of ranlib.

       -D  Operate in deterministic mode.  The symbol map archive member's header will show zero for the UID, GID,
           and timestamp.  When this option is used, multiple runs will produce identical output files.

           If binutils was configured with --enable-deterministic-archives, then this mode is on by default.  It can
           be disabled with the -U option, described below.

       -t  Update the timestamp of the symbol map of an archive.

       -U  Do not operate in deterministic mode.  This is the inverse of the -D option, above: the archive index
           will get actual UID, GID, timestamp, and file mode values.

           If binutils was configured without --enable-deterministic-archives, then this mode is on by default.

       @file
           Read command-line options from file.  The options read are inserted in place of the original @file
           option.  If file does not exist, or cannot be read, then the option will be treated literally, and not
           removed.

           Options in file are separated by whitespace.  A whitespace character may be included in an option by
           surrounding the entire option in either single or double quotes.  Any character (including a backslash)
           may be included by prefixing the character to be included with a backslash.  The file may itself contain
           additional @file options; any such options will be processed recursively.

SEE ALSO
       ar(1), nm(1), and the Info entries for binutils.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 1991-2013 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

       Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU Free
       Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
       Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license is
       included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation License".



binutils-2.24-system                                 2016-05-02                                            RANLIB(1)
