XAUTH(1)                                       General Commands Manual                                      XAUTH(1)



NAME
       xauth - X authority file utility

SYNOPSIS
       xauth [ -f authfile ] [ -vqibn ] [ command arg ... ]

DESCRIPTION
       The  xauth  program  is  used  to  edit and display the authorization information used in connecting to the X
       server.  This program is usually used to extract authorization records from one machine and merge them in  on
       another  (as  is  the  case when using remote logins or granting access to other users).  Commands (described
       below) may be entered interactively, on the xauth command line, or in scripts.  Note that this  program  does
       not  contact the X server except when the generate command is used.  Normally xauth is not used to create the
       authority file entry in the first place; the program that starts the X server  (often  xdm  or  startx)  does
       that.

OPTIONS
       The  following  options may be used with xauth.  They may be given individually (e.g., -q -i) or may combined
       (e.g., -qi).

       -f authfile
               This option specifies the name of the authority file to use.  By default, xauth  will  use  the  file
               specified by the XAUTHORITY environment variable or .Xauthority in the user's home directory.

       -q      This  option  indicates  that xauth should operate quietly and not print unsolicited status messages.
               This is the default if an xauth command is given on the command line or if the standard output is not
               directed to a terminal.

       -v      This  option  indicates  that xauth should operate verbosely and print status messages indicating the
               results of various operations (e.g., how many records have been read in or written out).  This is the
               default if xauth is reading commands from its standard input and its standard output is directed to a
               terminal.

       -i      This option indicates that xauth should ignore any authority file locks.  Normally, xauth will refuse
               to  read  or edit any authority files that have been locked by other programs (usually xdm or another
               xauth).

       -b      This option indicates that xauth should attempt to break any authority file locks before  proceeding.
               Use this option only to clean up stale locks.

       -n      This  option  indicates  that  xauth  should  not attempt to resolve any hostnames, but should simply
               always print the host address as stored in the authority file.

COMMANDS
       The following commands may be used to manipulate authority files:

       add displayname protocolname hexkey
               An authorization entry for the indicated display using the given protocol and key data  is  added  to
               the authorization file.  The data is specified as an even-lengthed string of hexadecimal digits, each
               pair representing one octet.  The first digit of each pair gives the most significant 4 bits  of  the
               octet,  and the second digit of the pair gives the least significant 4 bits.  For example, a 32 char‐
               acter hexkey would represent a 128-bit value.  A protocol name consisting of just a single period  is
               treated as an abbreviation for MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE-1.


       generate displayname protocolname [trusted|untrusted]
               [timeout seconds] [group group-id] [data hexdata]

               This  command is similar to add.  The main difference is that instead of requiring the user to supply
               the key data, it connects to the server specified in displayname and uses the SECURITY  extension  in
               order  to  get the key data to store in the authorization file.  If the server cannot be contacted or
               if it does not support the SECURITY extension, the command fails.  Otherwise, an authorization  entry
               for  the  indicated  display using the given protocol is added to the authorization file.  A protocol
               name consisting of just a single period is treated as an abbreviation for MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE-1.

               If the trusted option is used, clients that connect using this authorization will have  full  run  of
               the  display,  as usual.  If untrusted is used, clients that connect using this authorization will be
               considered untrusted and prevented from stealing or tampering with data belonging to trusted clients.
               See  the  SECURITY  extension specification for full details on the restrictions imposed on untrusted
               clients.  The default is untrusted.

               The timeout option specifies how long in seconds this authorization will be valid.  If the authoriza‐
               tion  remains  unused (no clients are connected with it) for longer than this time period, the server
               purges the authorization, and future attempts to connect using it will fail.  Note that  the  purging
               done  by the server does not delete the authorization entry from the authorization file.  The default
               timeout is 60 seconds.

               The group option specifies the application group that  clients  connecting  with  this  authorization
               should  belong  to.  See the application group extension specification for more details.  The default
               is to not belong to an application group.

               The data option specifies data that the server should use to generate the authorization.   Note  that
               this  is  not  the same data that gets written to the authorization file.  The interpretation of this
               data depends on the authorization protocol.  The  hexdata  is  in  the  same  format  as  the  hexkey
               described in the add command.  The default is to send no data.


       [n]extract filename displayname...
               Authorization  entries  for each of the specified displays are written to the indicated file.  If the
               nextract command is used, the entries are written in a numeric format suitable for non-binary  trans‐
               mission  (such as secure electronic mail).  The extracted entries can be read back in using the merge
               and nmerge commands.  If the filename consists of just a single dash, the entries will be written  to
               the standard output.

       [n]list [displayname...]
               Authorization  entries  for  each  of  the  specified  displays (or all if no displays are named) are
               printed on the standard output.  If the nlist command is used, entries will be shown in  the  numeric
               format  used  by  the  nextract  command; otherwise, they are shown in a textual format.  Key data is
               always displayed in the hexadecimal format given in the description of the add command.

       [n]merge [filename...]
               Authorization entries are read from the specified files and are merged into the  authorization  data‐
               base,  superseding  any  matching existing entries. If the nmerge command is used, the numeric format
               given in the description of the extract command is used.  If a filename consists  of  just  a  single
               dash, the standard input will be read if it hasn't been read before.

       remove displayname...
               Authorization entries matching the specified displays are removed from the authority file.

       source filename
               The  specified  file  is  treated  as a script containing xauth commands to execute.  Blank lines and
               lines beginning with a sharp sign (#) are ignored.  A single dash may be used to indicate  the  stan‐
               dard input, if it hasn't already been read.

       info    Information  describing  the  authorization file, whether or not any changes have been made, and from
               where xauth commands are being read is printed on the standard output.

       exit    If any modifications have been made, the authority file is written out (if allowed), and the  program
               exits.  An end of file is treated as an implicit exit command.

       quit    The  program exits, ignoring any modifications.  This may also be accomplished by pressing the inter‐
               rupt character.

       help [string]
               A description of all commands that begin with the given string (or  all  commands  if  no  string  is
               given) is printed on the standard output.

       ?       A short list of the valid commands is printed on the standard output.

DISPLAY NAMES
       Display names for the add, [n]extract, [n]list, [n]merge, and remove commands use the same format as the DIS‐
       PLAY environment variable and the common -display command line argument.  Display-specific information  (such
       as the screen number) is unnecessary and will be ignored.  Same-machine connections (such as local-host sock‐
       ets, shared memory, and the Internet Protocol hostname  localhost)  are  referred  to  as  hostname/unix:dis‐
       playnumber so that local entries for different machines may be stored in one authority file.

EXAMPLE
       The  most  common  use for xauth is to extract the entry for the current display, copy it to another machine,
       and merge it into the user's authority file on the remote machine:

               %  xauth extract - $DISPLAY | ssh otherhost xauth merge -

       The following command contacts the server :0 to create an authorization using the  MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE-1  proto‐
       col.  Clients that connect with this authorization will be untrusted.
            %  xauth generate :0 .

ENVIRONMENT
       This xauth program uses the following environment variables:

       XAUTHORITY
               to get the name of the authority file to use if the -f option isn't used.

       HOME    to get the user's home directory if XAUTHORITY isn't defined.

FILES
       $HOME/.Xauthority
               default authority file if XAUTHORITY isn't defined.

SEE ALSO
       X(7), Xsecurity(7), xhost(1), Xserver(1), xdm(1), startx(1), Xau(3).

BUGS
       Users  that  have unsecure networks should take care to use encrypted file transfer mechanisms to copy autho‐
       rization entries between machines.  Similarly, the MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE-1 protocol is not very useful in unsecure
       environments.  Sites that are interested in additional security may need to use encrypted authorization mech‐
       anisms such as Kerberos.

       Spaces are currently not allowed in the protocol name.  Quoting could be added for the truly perverse.

AUTHOR
       Jim Fulton, MIT X Consortium



X Version 11                                         xauth 1.0.7                                            XAUTH(1)
