XBIFF(1)                                       General Commands Manual                                      XBIFF(1)



NAME
       xbiff - mailbox flag for X

SYNOPSIS
       xbiff [ -toolkitoption ... ] [ -option ... ]

DESCRIPTION
       The  xbiff  program  displays a little image of a mailbox.  When there is no mail, the flag on the mailbox is
       down.  When mail arrives, the flag goes up and the mailbox beeps.  By default, pressing any mouse  button  in
       the image forces xbiff to remember the current size of the mail file as being the ``empty'' size and to lower
       the flag.

OPTIONS
       Xbiff accepts all of the standard X Toolkit command line options along with  the  additional  options  listed
       below:

       -help   This  option  indicates that a brief summary of the allowed options should be printed on the standard
               error.

       -update seconds
               This option specifies the frequency in seconds at which xbiff should  update  its  display.   If  the
               mailbox is obscured and then exposed, it will be updated immediately.  The default is 30 seconds.

       -file filename
               This  option  specifies  the  name of the file which should be monitored.  By default it watches your
               inbox  in  the  default  location  for   your   system   (some   examples   are   /var/mail/username,
               /usr/spool/mail/username,  /var/spool/mail/username (where username is your login name).  If the MAIL
               environment variable is set, the file specified by it will be monitored.

       -volume percentage
               This option specifies how loud the bell should be rung when new mail comes in.

       -shape  This option indicates that the mailbox window should be shaped if masks for the empty or full  images
               are given.

       The following standard X Toolkit command line arguments are commonly used with xbiff:

       -display display
               This option specifies the X server to contact.

       -geometry geometry
               This  option specifies the preferred size and position of the mailbox window.  The mailbox is 48 pix‐
               els wide and 48 pixels high and will be centered in the window.

       -bg color
               This option specifies the color to use for the background of the window.

       -bd color
               This option specifies the color to use for the border of the window.

       -bw number
               This option specifies the width in pixels of the border surrounding the window.

       -fg color
               This option specifies the color to use for the foreground of the window.

       -rv     This option indicates that reverse video should be simulated by swapping  the  foreground  and  back‐
               ground colors.

       -xrm resourcestring
               This  option specifies a resource string to be used.  This is especially useful for setting resources
               that do not have separate command line options.

X DEFAULTS
       The application class name is XBiff.  This program uses the Mailbox widget.  It understands all of  the  core
       resource names and classes as well as:

       checkCommand (class CheckCommand)
               Specifies  a  shell  command  to  be executed to check for new mail rather than examining the size of
               file.  The specified string value is used as the argument to a system(3) call and may therefore  con‐
               tain i/o redirection.  An exit status of 0 indicates that new mail is waiting, 1 indicates that there
               has been no change in size, and 2 indicates that the mail has been cleared.   By  default,  no  shell
               command is provided.

       file (class File)
               Specifies  the  name of the file to monitor.  The default is as described above for the -file command
               line option.

       onceOnly (class Boolean)
               Specifies that the bell is only rung the first time new mail is found and is not rung again until  at
               least  one  interval has passed with no mail waiting.  The window will continue to indicate the pres‐
               ence of new mail until it has been retrieved.  The default is false.

       width (class Width)
               Specifies the width of the mailbox.

       height (class Height)
               Specifies the height of the mailbox.

       update (class Interval)
               Specifies the frequency in seconds at which the mail should be checked.  The default is 30.

       volume (class Volume)
               Specifies how loud the bell should be rung.  The default is 33 percent.

       foreground (class Foreground)
               Specifies the color for the foreground.

       reverseVideo (class ReverseVideo)
               Specifies that the foreground and background should be reversed.

       flip (class Flip)
               Specifies whether or not the image that is shown when mail  has  arrived  should  be  inverted.   The
               default is ``true.''

       fullPixmap (class Pixmap)
               Specifies a bitmap to be shown when new mail has arrived.  The default is flagup.

       emptyPixmap (class Pixmap)
               Specifies a bitmap to be shown when no new mail is present.  The default is flagdown.

       shapeWindow (class ShapeWindow)
               Specifies  whether or not the mailbox window should be shaped to the given fullPixmapMask and emptyP‐
               ixmapMask.  The default is false.

       fullPixmapMask (class PixmapMask)
               Specifies a mask for the bitmap to be shown when new mail has arrived.  The default is none.

       emptyPixmapMask (class PixmapMask)
               Specifies a mask for the bitmap to be shown when no new mail is present.  The default is none.

ACTIONS
       The Mailbox widget provides the following actions for use in event translations:

       check() This action causes the widget to check for new mail and display the flag appropriately.

       unset() This action causes the widget to lower the flag until new mail comes in.

       set()   This action causes the widget to raise the flag until the user resets it.

       The default translation is

               <ButtonPress>:  unset()


ENVIRONMENT
       DISPLAY to get the default host and display number.

       XENVIRONMENT
               to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER
               property.

SEE ALSO
       X(7), xrdb(1), stat(2)

BUGS
       The mailbox bitmaps are ugly.

AUTHOR
       Jim Fulton, MIT X Consortium
       Additional hacks by Ralph Swick, DEC/MIT Project Athena



X Version 11                                         xbiff 1.0.3                                            XBIFF(1)
