XCLIPBOARD(1)                                  General Commands Manual                                 XCLIPBOARD(1)



NAME
       xclipboard - X clipboard client

SYNOPSIS
       xclipboard [ -toolkitoption ... ] [ -w ] [ -nw ]

DESCRIPTION
       The xclipboard program is used to collect and display text selections that are sent to the CLIPBOARD by other
       clients.  It is typically used to save CLIPBOARD selections for later use.  It stores each  CLIPBOARD  selec‐
       tion  as a separate string, each of which can be selected.  Each time CLIPBOARD is asserted by another appli‐
       cation, xclipboard transfers the contents of that selection to a new buffer and displays it in the text  win‐
       dow.   Buffers are never automatically deleted, so you'll want to use the delete button to get rid of useless
       items.

       Since xclipboard uses a Text Widget to display the contents of the clipboard, text sent to the CLIPBOARD  may
       be  re-selected for use in other applications.  xclipboard also responds to requests for the CLIPBOARD selec‐
       tion from other clients by sending the entire contents of the currently displayed buffer.

       An xclipboard window has the following buttons across the top:

       quit    When this button is pressed, xclipboard exits.

       delete  When this button is pressed, the current buffer is deleted and the next one displayed.

       new     Creates a new buffer with no contents.  Useful in constructing a new CLIPBOARD selection by hand.

       save    Displays a File Save dialog box.  Pressing the Accept button saves the currently displayed buffer  to
               the file specified in the text field.

       next    Displays the next buffer in the list.

       previous
               Displays the previous buffer.

OPTIONS
       The xclipboard program accepts all of the standard X Toolkit command line options as well as the following:

       -w      This  option  indicates that lines of text that are too long to be displayed on one line in the clip‐
               board should wrap around to the following lines.

       -nw     This option indicates that long lines of text should not wrap around.  This is the default behavior.

WIDGETS
       In order to specify resources, it is useful to know the hierarchy of the widgets  which  compose  xclipboard.
       In  the  notation below, indentation indicates hierarchical structure.  The widget class name is given first,
       followed by the widget instance name.

       XClipboard  xclipboard
               Form  form
                       Command  Quit
                       Command  delete
                       Command  new
                       Command  Save
                       Command  next
                       Command  prev
                       Label  index
                       Text  text
               TransientShell  fileDialogShell
                       Dialog  fileDialog
                               Label  label
                               Command  accept
                               Command  cancel
                               Text value
               TransientShell  failDialogShell
                       Dialog  failDialog
                               Label  label
                               Command  continue


SENDING/RETRIEVING CLIPBOARD CONTENTS
       Text is copied to the clipboard whenever a client asserts ownership of  the  CLIPBOARD  selection.   Text  is
       copied  from  the  clipboard whenever a client requests the contents of the CLIPBOARD selection.  Examples of
       event bindings that a user may wish to include in a resource configuration file to use the clipboard are:

       *VT100.Translations: #override \
               <Btn3Up>:       select-end(CLIPBOARD) \n\
               <Btn2Up>:       insert-selection(PRIMARY,CLIPBOARD) \n\
               <Btn2Down>:     ignore ()



SEE ALSO
       X(7), xcutsel(1), xterm(1), individual client documentation for how to make a selection and send  it  to  the
       CLIPBOARD.

ENVIRONMENT
       DISPLAY to get the default host and display number.

       XENVIRONMENT
               to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER
               property.

FILES
       /etc/X11/app-defaults/XClipboard
              specifies required resources

AUTHOR
       Ralph R. Swick, DEC/MIT Project Athena
       Chris D. Peterson, MIT X Consortium
       Keith Packard, MIT X Consortium



X Version 11                                      xclipboard 1.1.3                                     XCLIPBOARD(1)
