XCLOCK(1)                                      General Commands Manual                                     XCLOCK(1)



NAME
       xclock - analog / digital clock for X

SYNOPSIS
       xclock [ -help ] [ -analog | -digital ] [ -brief ] [ -chime ] [ -hd color ] [ -hl color ] [ -update seconds ]
       [ -strftime format ] [ -twelve | -twentyfour | -utime ] [ -padding number ] [  -norender  ]  [  -render  ]  [
       -sharp ] [ -face pattern ]

DESCRIPTION
       The  xclock  program displays the time in analog or digital form.  The time is continuously updated at a fre‐
       quency which may be specified by the user.

OPTIONS
       Xclock accepts all of the standard X Toolkit command line options along with the  additional  options  listed
       below:

       -help   This  option  indicates that a brief summary of the allowed options should be printed on the standard
               error.

       -analog This option indicates that a conventional 12 hour clock face with tick  marks  and  hands  should  be
               used.  This is the default.

       -digital or -d
               This option indicates that a 24 hour digital clock should be used.

       -brief  This  option  indicates that the digital clock should only display the hours and minutes fields.  The
               default is to show the full time and date information.

       -utime  This option indicates that a digital  clock  should  display  seconds  since  the  Epoch  (in  format
               '970012340 seconds since Epoch' instead of a standard 24-hour time.

       -strftime format
               This option allows an strftime(3) format string to be specified for the digital clock's display.

       -twelve This option indicates that a digital clock should display the time in twelve hour format.

       -twentyfour
               This  option indicates that a digital clock should display the time in twenty-four hour format.  This
               is the default when a digital clock is used.

       -chime  This option indicates that the clock should chime once on the half hour and twice on the hour.

       -hands color (or -hd color)
               This option specifies the color of the hands on an analog clock.  The default is black.  This  option
               is effectively ignored when Xrender is in use.

       -highlight color (or -hl color)
               This  option  specifies the color of the edges of the hands on an analog clock, and is only useful on
               color displays.  The default is black.  This option is effectively ignored when Xrender is in use.

       -update seconds
               This option specifies the frequency in seconds at which xclock should update  its  display.   If  the
               clock  is  obscured  and then exposed, it will be updated immediately.  A value of 30 seconds or less
               will enable a second hand on an analog clock.  The default is 60 seconds.

       -padding number
               This option specifies the width in pixels of the padding between the window border and clock text  or
               picture.  The default is 10 on a digital clock and 8 on an analog clock.

       -render This  option  tells  xclock  to  use  the Xrender extension to draw an anti-aliased face. This is the
               default if xclock has been compiled with Xrender support.  Note that the color selection options  and
               resources used when Xrender is in effect differ from the standard options.

       -norender
               This option turns off the use of Xrender to draw the clock.

       -sharp  This option tells xclock to use sharper edges when drawn using the Xrender extension.

       -face pattern
               This  option  specifies the font to use in digital mode when the Xrender extension is used.  Patterns
               are specified using the fontconfig face format described in the Font Names section of fonts.conf(5).

X DEFAULTS
       This program uses the Clock widget.  It understands all of the core resource names and classes as well as:

       width (class Width)
               Specifies the width of the clock.  The default for analog clocks is 164 pixels; the default for digi‐
               tal clocks is whatever is needed to hold the clock when displayed in the chosen font.

       height (class Height)
               Specifies the height of the clock.  The default for analog clocks is 164 pixels; the default for dig‐
               ital clocks is whatever is needed to hold the clock when displayed in the chosen font.

       update (class Interval)
               Specifies the frequency in seconds at which the time should be redisplayed.

       foreground (class Foreground)
               Specifies the color for the tick marks. The default depends on whether reverseVideo is specified.  If
               reverseVideo is specified the default is lwhite, otherwise the default is black.


       hands (class Foreground)
               Specifies  the color of the insides of the clock's hands. The default depends on whether reverseVideo
               is specified.  If reverseVideo is specified the default is lwhite, otherwise the  default  is  black.
               Note that this resource is not used when Xrender is in effect.

       highlight (class Foreground)
               Specifies the color used to highlight the clock's hands. The default is
                depends  on  whether reverseVideo is specified.  If reverseVideo is specified the default is lwhite,
               otherwise the default is black.  Note that this resource is not used when Xrender is in effect.

       analog (class Boolean)
               Specifies whether or not an analog clock should be used instead of a digital  one.   The  default  is
               True.

       twentyfour (class Boolean)
               Specifies  whether  or  not  a digital clock should display the time in twenty-four hour format.  The
               default is True.

       chime (class Boolean)
               Specifies whether or not a bell should be rung on the hour and half hour.

       padding (class Margin)
               Specifies the amount of internal padding in pixels to be used.  The default is 8.

       font (class Font)
               Specifies the font to be used for the digital clock.  Note that variable width fonts  currently  will
               not always display correctly.  This font is only used when Xrender is not in effect.

       render (class Boolean)
               Specifies whether or not the Xrender extension should be used for the display. The default is True if
               xclock has been compiled with Xrender support.

       When Xrender is in effect, the following additional resources are understood:

       face (class FaceName)
               Specify the pattern for the font to be used for the digital clock when Xrender  is  used.    Patterns
               are specified using the fontconfig face format described in the Font Names section of fonts.conf(5).

       sharp (class Boolean)
               Specifies if sharp edges should be used when rendering the clock.  The default is False.

       buffer (class Boolean)
               Specifies  that  the updates of the image are drawn to a pixmap before copied into the window instead
               drawing them into the window directly.

       The defaults of the following color resources depend on whether reverseVideo is specified.   If  reverseVideo
       is specified the default is lwhite, otherwise the default is black.

       hourColor (class Foreground)
               The color of the hour hand.

       minuteColor (class Foreground)
               The color of the minute hand.

       secondColor (class Foreground)
               The color of the second hand.

       majorColor (class Foreground)
               The color of the major scale ticks (i. e. each five minutes).

       minorColor (class Foreground)
               The color of the minor scale ticks (between major ticks).

WIDGETS
       In  order  to  specify resources, it is useful to know the hierarchy of the widgets which compose xclock.  In
       the notation below, indentation indicates hierarchical structure.  The widget class name is given first, fol‐
       lowed by the widget instance name.

       XClock  xclock
               Clock  clock


ENVIRONMENT
       DISPLAY to get the default host and display number.

       XENVIRONMENT
               to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER
               property.

FILES
       /etc/X11/app-defaults/XClock
              specifies required resources

SEE ALSO
       X(7), xrdb(1), time(3), fonts.conf (5).

BUGS
       Xclock believes the system clock.

       When in digital mode, the string should be centered automatically.

AUTHORS
       Tony Della Fera (MIT-Athena, DEC)
       Dave Mankins (MIT-Athena, BBN)
       Ed Moy (UC Berkeley)




X Version 11                                        xclock 1.0.7                                           XCLOCK(1)
