XCMSDB(1)                                      General Commands Manual                                     XCMSDB(1)



NAME
       xcmsdb - Device Color Characterization utility for X Color Management System

SYNOPSIS
       xcmsdb [ -query ] [ -remove ] [ -format 32|16|8 ] [ filename ]

DESCRIPTION
       xcmsdb  is used to load, query, or remove Device Color Characterization data stored in properties on the root
       window of the screen as specified in section 7, Device Color Characterization, of the  ICCCM.   Device  Color
       Characterization  data (also called the Device Profile) is an integral part of Xlib's X Color Management Sys‐
       tem (Xcms), necessary for proper conversion of color specification  between  device-independent  and  device-
       dependent  forms.   Xcms  uses 3x3 matrices stored in the XDCCC_LINEAR_RGB_MATRICES property to convert color
       specifications between CIEXYZ and RGB Intensity (XcmsRGBi, also referred to as linear RGB).  Xcms  then  uses
       display  gamma information stored in the XDCCC_LINEAR_RGB_CORRECTION property to convert color specifications
       between RGBi and RGB device (XcmsRGB, also referred to as device RGB).

       Note that Xcms allows clients to register function sets in addition to its  built-in  function  set  for  CRT
       color  monitors.   Additional function sets may store their device profile information in other properties in
       function set specific format.  This utility is unaware of these non-standard properties.

       The ASCII readable contents of filename (or the standard input if no input file is given)  are  appropriately
       transformed for storage in properties, provided the -query or -remove options are not specified.

OPTIONS
       xcmsdb program accepts the following options:

       -query  This  option  attempts  to read the XDCCC properties off the screen's root window.  If successful, it
               transforms the data into a more readable format, then sends the data to standard out.

       -remove This option attempts to remove the XDCCC properties on the screen's root window.

       -format 32|16|8
               Specifies the property format (32, 16, or 8 bits per entry) for the XDCCC_LINEAR_RGB_CORRECTION prop‐
               erty.  Precision of encoded floating point values increases with the increase in bits per entry.  The
               default is 32 bits per entry.

SEE ALSO
       xprop(1), Xlib documentation

ENVIRONMENT
       DISPLAY to figure out which display and screen to use.

AUTHOR
       Chuck Adams, Tektronix Inc.  Al Tabayoyon, SynChromatics Inc. (added multi-visual support)



X Version 11                                        xcmsdb 1.0.4                                           XCMSDB(1)
