XCONSOLE(1)                                    General Commands Manual                                   XCONSOLE(1)



NAME
       xconsole - monitor system console messages with X

SYNOPSIS
       xconsole [-toolkitoption ...] [-file file-name] [-notify] [-stripNonprint] [-daemon] [-verbose] [-exitOnFail]

DESCRIPTION
       The xconsole program displays messages which are usually sent to /dev/console.

OPTIONS
       Xconsole  accepts all of the standard X Toolkit command line options along with the additional options listed
       below:

       -file file-name
               To monitor some other device, use this option to specify the device name.  This does not work on reg‐
               ular files as they are always ready to be read from.

       -notify -nonotify
               When new data are received from the console and the notify option is set, the icon name of the appli‐
               cation has " *" appended, so that it is evident even when the application is iconified.   -notify  is
               the default.

       -daemon This option causes xconsole to place itself in the background, using fork/exit.

       -verbose
               When  set,  this  option  directs xconsole to display an informative message in the first line of the
               text buffer.

       -exitOnFail
               When set, this option directs xconsole to exit when it is unable to redirect the console output.

       -saveLines count
               When set, xconsole only preserves count lines of message history instead of growing the  text  buffer
               without bound (a count of zero - the default - is treated as placing no limit on the history).

X DEFAULTS
       This program uses the Athena Text widget, look in the Athena Widget Set documentation for controlling it.

       Xconsole  otherwise  accepts  resources  of  the  same names as the command-line options (without the leading
       dash).  "file" is a string type, "saveLines" an integer, and the remaining options are booleans.

WIDGETS
       In order to specify resources, it is useful to know the hierarchy of the widgets which compose xconsole.   In
       the notation below, indentation indicates hierarchical structure.  The widget class name is given first, fol‐
       lowed by the widget instance name.

       XConsole  xconsole
            XConsole  text


ENVIRONMENT
       DISPLAY to get the default host and display number.

       XENVIRONMENT
               to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER
               property.

FILES
       /etc/X11/app-defaults/XConsole
              specifies required resources

SEE ALSO
       X(7), xrdb(1), Athena Text widget

AUTHOR
       Keith Packard (MIT X Consortium)



X Version 11                                       xconsole 1.0.6                                        XCONSOLE(1)
