XCUTSEL(1)                                     General Commands Manual                                    XCUTSEL(1)



NAME
       xcutsel - interchange between cut buffer and selection

SYNOPSIS
       xcutsel [ -toolkitoption ...] [-selection selection] [-cutbuffer number]

DESCRIPTION
       The xcutsel program is used to copy the current selection into a cut buffer and to make a selection that con‐
       tains the current contents of the cut buffer.  It acts as a bridge between applications  that  don't  support
       selections and those that do.

       By  default,  xcutsel will use the selection named PRIMARY and the cut buffer CUT_BUFFER0.  Either or both of
       these can be overridden by command line arguments or by resources.

       An xcutsel window has the following buttons:

           quit
               When this button is pressed, xcutsel  exits.   Any  selections  held  by  xcutsel  are  automatically
               released.

           copy PRIMARY to 0
               When this button is pressed, xcutsel copies the current selection into the cut buffer.

           copy 0 to PRIMARY
               When  this button is pressed, xcutsel converts the current contents of the cut buffer into the selec‐
               tion.

       The button labels reflect the selection and cutbuffer  selected  by  command  line  options  or  through  the
       resource database.

       When  the  ``copy  0  to  PRIMARY''  button  is activated, the button will remain inverted as long as xcutsel
       remains the owner of the selection.  This serves to remind you which client owns the current selection.  Note
       that  the  value  of the selection remains constant; if the cutbuffer is changed, you must again activate the
       copy button to retrieve the new value when desired.

OPTIONS
       Xcutsel accepts all of the standard X Toolkit command line options as well as the following:

       -selection name
               This option specifies the name of the selection to use.  The default is PRIMARY.  The only  supported
               abbreviations  for  this  option are ``-select'', ``-sel'' and ``-s'', as the standard toolkit option
               ``-selectionTimeout'' has a similar name.

       -cutbuffer number
               This option specifies the cut buffer to use.  The default is cut buffer 0.

X DEFAULTS
       This program accepts all of the standard X Toolkit resource names and classes as well as:

       selection (class Selection)
               This resource specifies the name of the selection to use.  The default is PRIMARY.

       cutBuffer (class CutBuffer)
               This resource specifies the number of the cut buffer to use.  The default is 0.

WIDGET NAMES
       The following instance names may be used when user configuration of the labels in them is desired:

       sel-cut (class Command)
               This is the ``copy SELECTION to BUFFER'' button.

       cut-sel (class Command)
               This is the ``copy BUFFER to SELECTION'' button.

       quit (class Command)
               This is the ``quit'' button.

SEE ALSO
       X(7), xclipboard(1), xterm(1), text widget documentation, individual client documentation for how to  make  a
       selection.

BUGS
       There is no way to change the name of the selection or the number of the cut buffer while the program is run‐
       ning.

AUTHOR
       Ralph R. Swick, DEC/MIT Project Athena



X Version 11                                      xclipboard 1.1.3                                        XCUTSEL(1)
