XDG-SETTINGS(1)                                  xdg-settings Manual                                 XDG-SETTINGS(1)



NAME
       xdg-settings - get various settings from the desktop environment

SYNOPSIS
       xdg-settings {get | check | set} {property} [value]

       xdg-settings {--help | --list | --manual | --version}

DESCRIPTION
       xdg-settings gets various settings from the desktop environment. For instance, desktop environments often
       provide proxy configuration and default web browser settings. Using xdg-settings these parameters can be
       extracted for use by applications that do not use the desktop environment's libraries (which would use the
       settings natively).

       xdg-settings is for use inside a desktop session only. It is not recommended to use xdg-settings as root.

OPTIONS
       --help
           Show command synopsis.

       --list
           List all properties xdg-settings knows about.

       --manual
           Show this manualpage.

       --version
           Show the xdg-utils version information.

EXIT CODES
       An exit code of 0 indicates success while a non-zero exit code indicates failure. The following failure codes
       can be returned:

       1
           Error in command line syntax.

       2
           One of the files passed on the command line did not exist.

       3
           A required tool could not be found.

       4
           The action failed.

EXAMPLES
       Get the desktop file name of the current default web browser

                   xdg-settings get default-web-browser


       Check whether the default web browser is firefox.desktop, which can be false even if "get
       default-web-browser" says that is the current value (if only some of the underlying settings actually reflect
       that value)

                   xdg-settings check default-web-browser firefox.desktop


       Set the default web browser to google-chrome.desktop

                   xdg-settings set default-web-browser google-chrome.desktop



AUTHOR
       Mike Mammarella
           Author.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2009



[FIXME: source]                                      12/31/2010                                      XDG-SETTINGS(1)
