XHOST(1)                                       General Commands Manual                                      XHOST(1)



NAME
       xhost - server access control program for X

SYNOPSIS
       xhost [[+-]name ...]

DESCRIPTION
       The  xhost program is used to add and delete host names or user names to the list allowed to make connections
       to the X server.  In the case of hosts, this provides a rudimentary form of privacy control and security.  It
       is  only  sufficient  for  a  workstation (single user) environment, although it does limit the worst abuses.
       Environments which require more sophisticated measures should implement the user-based mechanism or  use  the
       hooks in the protocol for passing other authentication data to the server.

OPTIONS
       Xhost  accepts  the  following  command  line options described below.  For security, the options that affect
       access control may only be run from the "controlling host".  For workstations, this is the  same  machine  as
       the server.  For X terminals, it is the login host.

       -help   Prints a usage message.

       [+]name The  given  name (the plus sign is optional) is added to the list allowed to connect to the X server.
               The name can be a host name or a complete name (See NAMES for more details).

       -name   The given name is removed from the list of allowed to connect to the server.  The name can be a  host
               name  or  a complete name (See NAMES for more details).  Existing connections are not broken, but new
               connection attempts will be denied.  Note that the current machine is allowed to be removed; however,
               further  connections (including attempts to add it back) will not be permitted.  Resetting the server
               (thereby breaking all connections) is the only way to allow local connections again.

       +       Access is granted to everyone, even if they aren't on the list (i.e., access control is turned off).

       -       Access is restricted to only those on the list (i.e., access control is turned on).

       nothing If no command line arguments are given, a message indicating whether or not access  control  is  cur‐
               rently enabled is printed, followed by the list of those allowed to connect.  This is the only option
               that may be used from machines other than the controlling host.

NAMES
       A complete name has the syntax ``family:name'' where the families are as follows:

       inet      Internet host (IPv4)
       inet6     Internet host (IPv6)
       dnet      DECnet host
       nis       Secure RPC network name
       krb       Kerberos V5 principal
       local     contains only one name, the empty string
       si        Server Interpreted

       The family is case insensitive.  The format of the name varies with the family.

       When Secure RPC is being used, the network independent netname (e.g., "nis:unix.uid@domainname") can be spec‐
       ified, or a local user can be specified with just the username and a trailing at-sign (e.g., "nis:pat@").

       For  backward compatibility with pre-R6 xhost, names that contain an at-sign (@) are assumed to be in the nis
       family.  Otherwise they are assumed to be Internet addresses. If compiled to support IPv6, then all IPv4  and
       IPv6  addresses returned by getaddrinfo(3) are added to the access list in the appropriate inet or inet6 fam‐
       ily.

       The local family specifies all the local  connections  at  once.  However,  the  server  interpreted  address
       "si:localuser:username"  can  be  used  to specify a single local user. (See the Xsecurity(7) manual page for
       more details.)

       Server interpreted addresses consist of a case-sensitive type tag and a string representing  a  given  value,
       separated  by  a  colon.   For example, "si:hostname:almas" is a server interpreted address of type hostname,
       with a value of almas.   For more information on the available forms of server interpreted addresses, see the
       Xsecurity(7) manual page.

       The  initial  access  control  list for display number n may be set by the file /etc/Xn.hosts, where n is the
       display number of the server.  See Xserver(1) for details.

DIAGNOSTICS
       For each name added to the access control list, a line of the form "name being added to access control  list"
       is  printed.  For each name removed from the access control list, a line of the form "name being removed from
       access control list" is printed.

SEE ALSO
       X(7), Xsecurity(7), Xserver(1), xdm(1), xauth(1), getaddrinfo(3)

ENVIRONMENT
       DISPLAY to get the default host and display to use.

BUGS
       You can't specify a display on the command line because -display is a valid command line argument (indicating
       that you want to remove the machine named ``display'' from the access list).

       The  X  server  stores network addresses, not host names, unless you use the server-interpreted hostname type
       address.  If somehow you change a host's network address while the server is still running, and you are using
       a  network-address  based form of authentication, xhost must be used to add the new address and/or remove the
       old address.

AUTHORS
       Bob Scheifler, MIT Laboratory for Computer Science,
       Jim Gettys, MIT Project Athena (DEC).



X Version 11                                         xhost 1.0.6                                            XHOST(1)
