xjc(1)                                         Java Web Services Tools                                        xjc(1)



NAME
       xjc - Compiles an XML schema file into fully annotated Java classes.

SYNOPSIS
       xjc [ options ] schema file/URL/dir/jar ... [-b bindinfo ] ...


       options
              The command-line options. See Options.

       schema file/URL/dir/jar ...
              The location of the XML schema file. If dir is specified, then all schema files in it are compiled. If
              jar is specified, then the /META-INF/sun-jaxb.episode binding file is compiled.

       -b bindinfo
              The location of the bindings files.

DESCRIPTION
       Start the binding compiler with the appropriate xjc shell script in the bin directory for your platform.
       There is also an Ant task to run the binding complier. See Using the XJC with Ant at
       http://jaxb.java.net/nonav/2.1.3/docs/xjcTask.html

OPTIONS
       路 See also Nonstandard Options

       路 See also Deprecated and Removed Options

       -nv
         By default, the XJC binding compiler performs strict validation of the source schema before processing it.
         Use this option to disable strict schema validation. This does not mean that the binding compiler will not
         perform any validation, but means that it will perform a less-strict validation.

       -extension
         By default, the XJC binding compiler strictly enforces the rules outlined in the Compatibility chapter of
         the JAXB Specification. Appendix E.2 defines a set of W3C XML Schema features that are not completely
         supported by JAXB v1.0. In some cases, you may be allowed to use them in the -extension mode enabled by
         this switch. In the default (strict) mode, you are also limited to using only the binding customization
         defined in the specification. By using the -extension switch, you will be allowed to use the JAXB Vendor
         Extensions.

       -b file
         Specifies one or more external binding files to process. Each binding file must have its own -b switch. The
         syntax of the external binding files is flexible. You can have a single binding file that contains
         customization for multiple schemas or you can break the customization into multiple bindings files: xjc
         schema1.xsd schema2.xsd schema3.xsd -b bindings123.xjbxjc schema1.xsd schema2.xsd schema3.xsd -b
         bindings1.xjb -b bindings2.xjb -b bindings3.xjb. In addition, the ordering of the schema files and binding
         files on the command line does not matter.

       -d dir
         By default, the XJC binding compiler generates the Java content classes in the current directory. Use this
         option to specify an alternate output directory. The output directory must already exist. The XJC binding
         compiler does not create it for you.

       -p pkg
         When you specify a target package with this command-line option, it overrides any binding customization for
         the package name and the default package name algorithm defined in the specification.

       -httpproxy proxy
         Specifies the HTTP or HTTPS proxy in the format [user[:password]@]proxyHost[:proxyPort]. The old -host and
         -port options are still supported by the RI for backward compatibility, but they were deprecated. The
         password specified with this option is an argument that is visible to other users who use the top command.
         For greater security, use the -httpproxyfile option.

       -httpproxyfile file
         Specifies the HTTP or HTTPS proxy with a file. The same format as the -httpproxy option, but the password
         specified in the file is not visible to other users.

       -classpath arg
         Specifies where to find client application class files used by the jxb:javaType and xjc:superClass
         customization.

       -catalog file
         Specifies catalog files to resolve external entity references. Supports the TR9401, XCatalog, and OASIS XML
         Catalog formats. See XML Entity and URI Resolvers at http://xerces.apache.org/xml-
         commons/components/resolver/resolver-article.html

       -readOnly
         By default, the XJC binding compiler does not write-protect the Java source files it generates. Use this
         option to force the XJC binding compiler to mark the generated Java sources as read-only.

       -npa
         Suppresses the generation of package level annotations into **/package-info.java. Using this switch causes
         the generated code to internalize those annotations into the other generated classes.

       -no-header
         Suppresses the generation of a file header comment that includes some note and time stamp. Using this makes
         the generated code more compatible with the diff command.

       -target 2.0
         Avoids generating code that relies on any JAXB 2.1 features. This will allow the generated code to run with
         JAXB 2.0 runtime environment (such as Java SE 6).

       -xmlschema
         Treats input schemas as W3C XML Schema (default). If you do not specify this switch, then your input
         schemas are treated as though they are W3C XML Schemas.

       -relaxing
         Treats input schemas as RELAX NG (experimental and unsupported). Support for RELAX NG schemas is provided
         as a JAXB Vendor Extension.

       -relaxing-compact
         Treat input schemas as RELAX NG compact syntax (experimental and unsupported). Support for RELAX NG schemas
         is provided as a JAXB Vendor Extension.

       -dtd
         Treats input schemas as XML DTD (experimental and unsupported). Support for RELAX NG schemas is provided as
         a JAXB Vendor Extension.

       -wsdl
         Treats input as WSDL and compiles schemas inside it (experimental and unsupported).

       -quiet
         Suppress compiler output, such as progress information and warnings.

       -verbose
         Be extra verbose, such as printing informational messages or displaying stack traces upon some errors.

       -help
         Displays a brief summary of the compiler switches.

       -version
         Displays the compiler version information.

       schema file/URL/dir
         Specifies one or more schema files to compile. If you specify a directory, then the xjc command scans it
         for all schema files and compiles them.

   NONSTANDARD OPTIONS
       -XLocator
              Causes the generated code to expose SAX Locator information about the source XML in the Java bean
              instances after unmarshalling.

       -Xsync-methods
              Causes all of the generated method signatures to include the synchronized keyword.

       -mark-generated
              Marks the generated code with the annotation @javax.annotation.Generated.

       -episode file
              Generates the specified episode file for separate compilation.

   DEPRECATED AND REMOVED OPTIONS
       -host & -port
              These options are replaced with the -httpproxy option. For backward compatibility, these options are
              supported, but will not be documented and might be removed from future releases.

       -use-runtime
              Because the JAXB 2.0 specification has defined a portable runtime environment, it is no longer
              necessary for the JAXB RI to generate **/impl/runtimepackages. Therefore, this switch is obsolete and
              was removed.

       -source
              The -source compatibility switch was introduced in the first JAXB 2.0 Early Access release. This
              switch is removed from future releases of JAXB 2.0. If you need to generate 1.0.x code, then use an
              installation of the 1.0.x code base.

COMPILER RESTRICTIONS
       In general, it is safest to compile all related schemas as a single unit with the same binding compiler
       switches. Keep the following list of restrictions in mind when running the xjc command. Most of these issues
       only apply when you compile multiple schemas with multiple invocations of the xjc command.

       To compile multiple schemas at the same time, keep the following precedence rules for the target Java package
       name in mind:

       1.  The -p option has the highest precedence.

       2.  jaxb:package customization.

       3.  If targetNamespace is declared, then apply the targetNamespace to the Java package name algorithm defined
           in the specification.

       4.  If no targetNamespace is declared, then use a hard coded package named generated.

       You cannot have more than one jaxb:schemaBindings per name space, so it is impossible to have two schemas in
       the same target name space compiled into different Java packages.

       All schemas being compiled into the same Java package must be submitted to the XJC binding compiler at the
       same time. They cannot be compiled independently and work as expected.

       Element substitution groups that are spread across multiple schema files must be compiled at the same time.

SEE ALSO
       路 Binding Compiler (xjc) at http://jaxb.java.net/nonav/2.2.3u1/docs/xjc.html

       路 Java Architecture for XML Binding (JAXB) at
         http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/articles/javase/index-140168.html



JDK 8                                             21 November 2013                                            xjc(1)
