XKBEVD(1)                                      General Commands Manual                                     XKBEVD(1)



NAME
       xkbevd - XKB event daemon

SYNOPSIS
       xkbevd [ options ]

DESCRIPTION
       This  command  is very raw and is therefore only partially implemented;  we present it here as a rough proto‐
       type for developers, not as a general purpose tool for end users.  Something like this might make a  suitable
       replacement for xev;  I'm not signing up, mind you, but it's an interesting idea.

       The xkbevd event daemon listens for specified XKB events and executes requested commands if they occur.   The
       configuration file consists of a list of event specification/action pairs and/or variable definitions.

       An event specification consists of a short XKB event name followed by a string or identifier which serves  as
       a  qualifier  in  parentheses;   empty parenthesis indicate no qualification and serve to specify the default
       command which is applied to events which do not match any of the other specifications.  The interpretation of
       the qualifier depends on the type of the event:  Bell events match using the name of the bell, message events
       match on the contents of the message string and slow key events accept any  of  press,  release,  accept,  or
       reject.   No other events are currently recognized.

       An  action  consists of an optional keyword followed by an optional string argument.  Currently, xkbev recog‐
       nizes the actions: none, ignore, echo, printEvent, sound, and shell.  If the action  is  not  specified,  the
       string is taken as the name of a sound file to be played unless it begins with an exclamation point, in which
       case it is taken as a shell command.

       Variable definitions in the argument string are expanded with fields from the event in  question  before  the
       argument  string  is  passed  to  the  action processor.   The general syntax for a variable is either $cP or
       $(str), where c is a single character and str is a string of arbitrary length.  All parameters have both sin‐
       gle-character and long names.

       The  list  of recognized parameters varies from event to event and is too long to list here right now.   This
       is a developer release anyway, so you can be expected to look at the source code (evargs.c is  of  particular
       interest).

       The  ignore,  echo, printEvent, sound,and shell actions do what you would expect commands named ignore, echo,
       printEvent, sound, and shell to do, except that the sound command has only been implemented  and  tested  for
       SGI  machines.    It launches an external program right now, so it should be pretty easy to adapt, especially
       if you like audio cues that arrive about a half-second after you expect them.

       The only currently recognized variables are soundDirectory and soundCmd.  I'm sure you can  figure  out  what
       they do.

OPTIONS
       -help   Prints a usage message that is far more up-to-date than anything in this man page.

       -cfg file
               Specifies  the  configuration file to read.   If no configuration file is specified, xkbevd looks for
               ~/.xkb/xkbevd.cf and $(LIBDIR)/xkb/xkbevd.cf in that order.

       -sc cmd Specifies the command used to play sounds.

       -sd directory
               Specifies a top-level directory for sound files.

       -display display
               Specifies the display to use.  If not present, xkbevd uses $DISPLAY.

       -bg     Tells xkbevd to fork itself (and run in the background).

       -synch  Forces synchronization of all X requests.  Slow.

       -v      Print more information, including debugging messages.   Multiple specifications of -v cause more out‐
               put, to a point.

SEE ALSO
       X(7)

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 1995, Silicon Graphics Computer Systems Copyright 1995, 1998  The Open Group
       See X(7) for a full statement of rights and permissions.

AUTHOR
       Erik Fortune, Silicon Graphics



X Version 11                                        xkbevd 1.1.3                                           XKBEVD(1)
