XKILL(1)                                       General Commands Manual                                      XKILL(1)



NAME
       xkill - kill a client by its X resource

SYNOPSIS
       xkill [-display displayname] [-id resource] [-button number] [-frame] [-all]

DESCRIPTION
       Xkill is a utility for forcing the X server to close connections to clients.  This program is very dangerous,
       but is useful for aborting programs that have displayed undesired windows on a user's screen.  If no resource
       identifier is given with -id, xkill will display a special cursor as a prompt for the user to select a window
       to be killed.  If a pointer button is pressed over a non-root window, the server will close its connection to
       the client that created the window.

OPTIONS
       -display displayname
               This option specifies the name of the X server to contact.

       -id resource
               This  option  specifies  the  X  identifier  for  the resource whose creator is to be aborted.  If no
               resource is specified, xkill will display a special cursor with which you should select a  window  to
               be kill.

       -button number
               This option specifies the number of pointer button that should be used in selecting a window to kill.
               If the word "any" is specified, any button on the pointer may be used.  By default, the first  button
               in the pointer map (which is usually the leftmost button) is used.

       -all    This  option indicates that all clients with top-level windows on the screen should be killed.  Xkill
               will ask you to select the root window with each of the currently defined buttons to give you several
               chances to abort.  Use of this option is highly discouraged.

       -frame  This  option indicates that xkill should ignore the standard conventions for finding top-level client
               windows (which are typically nested inside a window manager window), and simply believe that you want
               to kill direct children of the root.

CAVEATS
       This  command  does  not provide any warranty that the application whose connection to the X server is closed
       will abort nicely, or even abort at all. All this command does is to close the connection to  the  X  server.
       Many  existing  applications  do  indeed  abort when their connection to the X server is closed, but some can
       choose to continue.

XDEFAULTS
       Button  Specifies a specific pointer button number or the word "any" to use when selecting windows.

SEE ALSO
       X(7), xwininfo(1), XKillClient and XGetPointerMapping in the Xlib Programmers Manual,  KillClient  in  the  X
       Protocol Specification

AUTHOR
       Jim Fulton, MIT X Consortium
       Dana Chee, Bellcore



X Version 11                                         xkill 1.0.3                                            XKILL(1)
