XLOAD(1)                                       General Commands Manual                                      XLOAD(1)



NAME
       xload - system load average display for X

SYNOPSIS
       xload     [-toolkitoption  ...]  [-scale  integer] [-update seconds] [-hl color] [-highlight color]  [-remote
       host]
               [-jumpscroll pixels] [-label string] [-nolabel] [-lights]

DESCRIPTION
       The xload program displays a periodically updating histogram of the system load average.

OPTIONS
       Xload accepts all of the standard X Toolkit command line options (see X(7)).  The order  of  the  options  is
       unimportant.  xload also accepts the following additional options:

       -hl color or -highlight color
               This option specifies the color of the scale lines.

       -jumpscroll number of pixels
               The number of pixels to shift the graph to the left when the graph reaches the right edge of the win‐
               dow.  The default value is 1/2 the width of the current window.  Smooth scrolling can be achieved  by
               setting it to 1.

       -label string
               The string to put into the label above the load average.

       -nolabel
               If this command line option is specified then no label will be displayed above the load graph.

       -lights When  specified,  this  option causes xload to display the current load average by using the keyboard
               leds; for a load average of n, xload lights the first n keyboard leds.  This  option  turns  off  the
               usual screen display.

       -scale integer
               This  option  specifies  the minimum number of tick marks in the histogram, where one division repre‐
               sents one load average point.  If the load goes above this number, xload will create more  divisions,
               but it will never use fewer than this number.  The default is 1.

       -update seconds
               This option specifies the interval in seconds at which xload updates its display.  The minimum amount
               of time allowed between updates is 1 second.  The default is 10.

       -remote host
               This option tells xload to display the load of host instead of localhost. Xload gets the  information
               from the rwhod database and consequently requires rwhod to be executing both on localhost and host.

RESOURCES
       In  addition to the resources available to each of the widgets used by xload there is one resource defined by
       the application itself.

       showLabel (class Boolean)
               If False then no label will be displayed.

WIDGETS
       In order to specify resources, it is useful to know the hierarchy of the widgets which compose xload.  In the
       notation below, indentation indicates hierarchical structure.  The widget class name is given first, followed
       by the widget instance name.

       XLoad  xload
               Paned  paned
                       Label  label
                       StripChart  load


ENVIRONMENT
       DISPLAY to get the default host and display number.

       XENVIRONMENT
               to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER
               property.

FILES
       /etc/X11/app-defaults/XLoad
              specifies required resources

SEE ALSO
       X(7), xrdb(1), mem(4), Athena StripChart Widget.

BUGS
       On  older platforms, this program may require the ability to open and read the special system file /dev/kmem.
       Sites that do not allow general access to this file may need to make  xload  belong  to  the  same  group  as
       /dev/kmem and turn on the set group id permission flag.

       Reading  the  load  average  is inherently non-portable.  Therefore, the routine used to read it (get_load.c)
       must be ported to each new operating system.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © X Consortium
       See X(7) for a full statement of rights and permissions.

AUTHORS
       K. Shane Hartman (MIT-LCS) and Stuart A. Malone (MIT-LCS);
       with features added by Jim Gettys (MIT-Athena), Bob Scheifler (MIT-LCS), Tony Della  Fera  (MIT-Athena),  and
       Chris Peterson (MIT-LCS).



X Version 11                                         xload 1.1.2                                            XLOAD(1)
