XMAG(1)                                        General Commands Manual                                       XMAG(1)



NAME
       xmag - magnify parts of the screen

SYNOPSIS
       xmag [ -mag magfactor ] [ -source geom ] [ -toolkitoption ... ]

DESCRIPTION
       The xmag program allows you to magnify portions of an X screen.  If no explicit region is specified, a square
       with the pointer in the upper left corner is displayed indicating the area to be enlarged.  The area  can  be
       dragged out to the desired size by pressing Button 2.  Once a region has been selected, a window is popped up
       showing a blown up version of the region in which each pixel in the source image is represented  by  a  small
       square of the same color.  Pressing Button1 in the enlargement window shows the position and RGB value of the
       pixel under the pointer until the button is released.  Typing ``Q'' or ``^C'' in the enlargement window exits
       the  program.   The  application  has  5 buttons across its top.  Close deletes this particular magnification
       instance.  Replace brings up the rubber band selector again to select another region for  this  magnification
       instance.   New  brings  up the rubber band selector to create a new magnification instance.  Select puts the
       magnification image into the primary selection.  Paste copies the primary selection buffer into  xmag.   Note
       that  you  can  cut  and  paste between xmag and the bitmap program.  Resizing xmag resizes the magnification
       area.  xmag preserves the colormap, visual, and window depth of the source.

WIDGETS
       xmag uses the X Toolkit and the Athena Widget Set.  The magnified image is displayed  in  the  Scale  widget.
       For  more  information,  see  the Athena Widget Set documentation.  Below is the widget structure of the xmag
       application.  Indentation indicates hierarchical  structure.  The widget class name is given first,  followed
       by the widget instance name.

            Xmag xmag
                 RootWindow root
                 TopLevelShell xmag
                      Paned pane1
                           Paned pane2
                                Command close
                                Command replace
                                Command new
                                Command select
                                Command paste
                                Label xmag label
                           Paned pane2
                                Scale scale
                 OverrideShell pixShell
                      Label pixLabel


OPTIONS
       -source geom   This  option  specifies  the  size  and/or  location  of  the source region on the screen.  By
                      default, a 64x64 square is provided for the user to select an area of the screen.

       -mag integer   This option indicates the magnification to be used.  5 is the default.

AUTHORS
       Dave Sternlicht and Davor Matic, MIT X Consortium.



X Version 11                                         xmag 1.0.5                                              XMAG(1)
