XMESSAGE(1)                                    General Commands Manual                                   XMESSAGE(1)



NAME
       xmessage - display a message or query in a window (X-based /bin/echo)

SYNOPSIS
       xmessage [ -buttons label1[:value1],label2[:value2], ...  ] [ options ] -file filename
       xmessage [ -buttons label1[:value1],label2[:value2], ...  ] [ options ] message ...

DESCRIPTION
       The xmessage program displays a window containing a message from the command line, a file, or standard input.
       Along the lower edge of the message is row of buttons; clicking the left mouse button on any of these buttons
       will  cause  xmessage  to  exit.  Which button was pressed is returned in the exit status and, optionally, by
       writing the label of the button to standard output.

       The program is typically used by shell scripts to display information to the user or to ask the user to  make
       a choice.

       Unless  a  size is specified, xmessage sizes itself to fit the message, up to a maximum size.  If the message
       is too big for the window, xmessage will display scroll bars.

OPTIONS
       These are the command line options that xmessage understands, in addition to  the  standard  ones  listed  in
       X(7).

       -buttons button,button,...
               This  option  will cause xmessage to create one button for each comma-separated button argument.  The
               corresponding resource is buttons.  Each button consists of a label optionally followed  by  a  colon
               and  an  exit  value.   The  label  is  the name of the Command button widget created and will be the
               default text displayed to the user.  Since this is the name of the widget it may be  used  to  change
               any  of  the  resources  associated with that button.  The exit value will be returned by xmessage if
               that button is selected.  The default exit value is 100 plus the button number.  Buttons are numbered
               from the left starting with one.  The default string if no -buttons option is given is okay:0.

       -default label
               Defines  the  button  with a matching label to be the default.  If not specified there is no default.
               The corresponding resource is defaultButton.  Pressing Return anywhere in the  xmessage  window  will
               activate the default button.  The default button has a wider border than the others.

       -file filename
               File  to  display.  The corresponding resource is file.  A filename of `-' reads from standard input.
               If this option is not supplied, xmessage will display all non-option arguments in the style of  echo.
               Either -file or a message on the command line should be provided, but not both.

       -print  This  will cause the program to write the label of the button pressed to standard output.  Equivalent
               to setting the printValue resource to TRUE.  This is one way to get feedback as to which  button  was
               pressed.

       -center Pop up the window at the center of the screen.  Equivalent to setting the center resource to TRUE.

       -nearmouse
               Pop up the window near the mouse cursor.  Equivalent to setting the nearMouse resource to TRUE.

       -timeout secs
               Exit with status 0 after secs seconds if the user has not clicked on a button yet.  The corresponding
               resource is timeout.

WIDGET HIERARCHY
       Knowing the name and position in the hierarchy of each widget is useful when specifying resources  for  them.
       In the following chart, the class and name of each widget is given.

       Xmessage (xmessage)
            Form form
                 Text message
                 Command (label1)
                 Command (label2)
                 .
                 .
                 .

RESOURCES
       The  program  has  a few top-level application resources that allow customizations that are specific to xmes‐
       sage.

       file    A String specifying the file to display.

       buttons A String specifying the buttons to display.  See the -buttons command-line option.

       defaultButton
               A String specifying a default button by label.

       printValue
               A Boolean value specifying whether the label of the button pressed to exit the program is written  to
               standard output.  The default is FALSE.

       center  A  Boolean value specifying whether to pop up the window at the center of the screen.  The default is
               FALSE.

       nearMouse
               A Boolean value specifying whether to pop up the window near the mouse cursor.  The default is FALSE.

       timeout The number of seconds after which to exit with status 0.  The default is 0, which  means  never  time
               out.

       maxHeight (class Maximum)
               The  maximum  height  of  the text part of the window in pixels, used if no size was specified in the
               geometry.  The default is 0, which means use 70% of the height of the screen.

       maxWidth (class Maximum)
               The maximum width of the text part of the window in pixels, used if no  size  was  specified  in  the
               geometry.  The default is 0, which means use 70% of the width of the screen.

ACTIONS
       exit(value)
               exit immediately with an exit status of value (default 0).  This action can be used with translations
               to provide alternate ways of exiting xmessage.

       default-exit()
               exit immediately with the exit status specified by the default button.  If there is no  default  but‐
               ton, this action has no effect.

EXIT STATUS
       If it detects an error, xmessage returns 1, so this value should not be used with a button.

SEE ALSO
       X(7), echo(1), cat(1)

AUTHORS
       Chris Peterson, MIT Project Athena
       Stephen Gildea, X Consortium



X Version 11                                       xmessage 1.0.4                                        XMESSAGE(1)
