XMODMAP(1)                                     General Commands Manual                                    XMODMAP(1)



NAME
       xmodmap - utility for modifying keymaps and pointer button mappings in X

SYNOPSIS
       xmodmap [-options ...] [filename]

DESCRIPTION
       The  xmodmap  program is used to edit and display the keyboard modifier map and keymap table that are used by
       client applications to convert event keycodes into keysyms.  It  is  usually  run  from  the  user's  session
       startup script to configure the keyboard according to personal tastes.

OPTIONS
       The following options may be used with xmodmap:

       -display display
               This option specifies the host and display to use.

       -help   This option indicates that a brief description of the command line arguments should be printed on the
               standard error channel.  This will be done whenever an unhandled argument is given to xmodmap.

       -grammar
               This option indicates that a help message describing the expression grammar used in files and with -e
               expressions should be printed on the standard error.

       -verbose
               This option indicates that xmodmap should print logging information as it parses its input.

       -quiet  This option turns off the verbose logging.  This is the default.

       -n      This  option  indicates that xmodmap should not change the mappings, but should display what it would
               do, like make(1) does when given this option.

       -e expression
               This option specifies an expression to be executed.  Any number of expressions may be specified  from
               the command line.

       -pm     This  option indicates that the current modifier map should be printed on the standard output.   This
               is the default mode of operation if no other mode options are specified.

       -pk     This option indicates that the current keymap table should be printed on the standard output.

       -pke    This option indicates that the current keymap table should be printed on the standard output  in  the
               form of expressions that can be fed back to xmodmap.

       -pp     This option indicates that the current pointer map should be printed on the standard output.

       -       A lone dash means that the standard input should be used as the input file.

       The  filename  specifies  a file containing xmodmap expressions to be executed.  This file is usually kept in
       the user's home directory with a name like .xmodmaprc.

EXPRESSION GRAMMAR
       The xmodmap program reads a list of expressions and parses them all before attempting to execute any of them.
       This  makes it possible to refer to keysyms that are being redefined in a natural way without having to worry
       as much about name conflicts.

       The list of keysym names may be found in the header file <X11/keysymdef.h> (without the XK_ prefix),  supple‐
       mented  by  the keysym database  /usr/share/X11/XKeysymDB.  Keysyms matching Unicode characters may be speci‐
       fied as "U0020" to "U007E" and "U00A0" to "U10FFFF" for all possible Unicode characters.

       keycode NUMBER = KEYSYMNAME ...
               The list of keysyms is assigned to the indicated keycode (which may be specified in decimal,  hex  or
               octal  and  can  be determined by running the xev program).  Up to eight keysyms may be attached to a
               key, however the last four are not used in any major X server implementation.  The  first  keysym  is
               used  when  no modifier key is pressed in conjunction with this key, the second with Shift, the third
               when the Mode_switch key is used with this key and the fourth when both  the  Mode_switch  and  Shift
               keys are used.

       keycode any = KEYSYMNAME ...
               If  no  existing key has the specified list of keysyms assigned to it, a spare key on the keyboard is
               selected and the keysyms are assigned to it.  The list of keysyms may be specified in decimal, hex or
               octal.

       keysym KEYSYMNAME = KEYSYMNAME ...
               The  KEYSYMNAME on the left hand side is translated into matching keycodes used to perform the corre‐
               sponding set of keycode expressions.  Note that if the same keysym is bound  to  multiple  keys,  the
               expression is executed for each matching keycode.

       clear MODIFIERNAME
               This  removes  all  entries  in the modifier map for the given modifier, where valid name are: Shift,
               Lock, Control, Mod1, Mod2, Mod3, Mod4, and Mod5 (case does not matter in modifier names, although  it
               does  matter  for  all  other names).  For example, ``clear Lock'' will remove all any keys that were
               bound to the shift lock modifier.

       add MODIFIERNAME = KEYSYMNAME ...
               This adds all keys containing the given keysyms to the indicated modifier map.  The keysym names  are
               evaluated after all input expressions are read to make it easy to write expressions to swap keys (see
               the EXAMPLES section).

       remove MODIFIERNAME = KEYSYMNAME ...
               This removes all keys containing the given keysyms from the indicated modifier map.  Unlike add,  the
               keysym  names  are  evaluated as the line is read in.  This allows you to remove keys from a modifier
               without having to worry about whether or not they have been reassigned.

       pointer = default
               This sets the pointer map back to its default settings (button 1 generates a code of 1, button 2 gen‐
               erates a 2, etc.).

       pointer = NUMBER ...
               This  sets  the  pointer  map to contain the indicated button codes.  The list always starts with the
               first physical button.  Setting a button code to 0 disables events from that button.

       Lines that begin with an exclamation point (!) are taken as comments.

       If you want to change the binding of a modifier key, you must also remove it from  the  appropriate  modifier
       map.

EXAMPLES
       Many  pointers  are  designed such that the first button is pressed using the index finger of the right hand.
       People who are left-handed frequently find that it is more comfortable to reverse the button codes  that  get
       generated  so that the primary button is pressed using the index finger of the left hand.  This could be done
       on a 3 button pointer as follows:
       %  xmodmap -e "pointer = 3 2 1"

       Many applications support the notion of Meta keys (similar to Control keys except  that  Meta  is  held  down
       instead  of  Control).   However,  some servers do not have a Meta keysym in the default keymap table, so one
       needs to be added by hand.  The following command will attach  Meta  to  the  Multi-language  key  (sometimes
       labeled  Compose Character).  It also takes advantage of the fact that applications that need a Meta key sim‐
       ply need to get the keycode and don't require the keysym to be in the first column of the keymap table.  This
       means  that  applications  that are looking for a Multi_key (including the default modifier map) won't notice
       any change.
       %  xmodmap -e "keysym Multi_key = Multi_key Meta_L"

       Similarly, some keyboards have an Alt key but no Meta key.  In that case the following may be useful:
       %  xmodmap -e "keysym Alt_L = Meta_L Alt_L"

       One of the more simple, yet convenient, uses of xmodmap is to set the keyboard's "rubout" key to generate  an
       alternate  keysym.   This  frequently involves exchanging Backspace with Delete to be more comfortable to the
       user.  If the ttyModes resource in xterm is set as well, all terminal emulator windows will use the same  key
       for erasing characters:
       %  xmodmap -e "keysym BackSpace = Delete"
       %  echo "XTerm*ttyModes:  erase ^?" | xrdb -merge

       Some  keyboards do not automatically generate less than and greater than characters when the comma and period
       keys are shifted.  This can be remedied with xmodmap by resetting the bindings for the comma and period  with
       the following scripts:
       !
       ! make shift-, be < and shift-. be >
       !
       keysym comma = comma less
       keysym period = period greater

       One of the more irritating differences between keyboards is the location of the Control and CapsLock keys.  A
       common use of xmodmap is to swap these two keys as follows:
       !
       ! Swap Caps_Lock and Control_L
       !
       remove Lock = Caps_Lock
       remove Control = Control_L
       keysym Control_L = Caps_Lock
       keysym Caps_Lock = Control_L
       add Lock = Caps_Lock
       add Control = Control_L

       This example can be run again to swap the keys back to their previous assignments.

       The keycode command is useful for assigning the same keysym to multiple keycodes.   Although  unportable,  it
       also  makes  it possible to write scripts that can reset the keyboard to a known state.  The following script
       sets the backspace key to generate Delete (as shown above), flushes all existing caps  lock  bindings,  makes
       the CapsLock key be a control key, make F5 generate Escape, and makes Break/Reset be a shift lock.
       !
       ! On the HP, the following keycodes have key caps as listed:
       !
       !     101  Backspace
       !      55  Caps
       !      14  Ctrl
       !      15  Break/Reset
       !      86  Stop
       !      89  F5
       !
       keycode 101 = Delete
       keycode 55 = Control_R
       clear Lock
       add Control = Control_R
       keycode 89 = Escape
       keycode 15 = Caps_Lock
       add Lock = Caps_Lock

ENVIRONMENT
       DISPLAY to get default host and display number.

SEE ALSO
       X(7), xev(1), setxkbmap(1), XStringToKeysym(3), Xlib documentation on key and pointer events

BUGS
       Every  time  a  keycode  expression is evaluated, the server generates a MappingNotify event on every client.
       This can cause some thrashing.  All of the changes should be batched together and done at once.  Clients that
       receive keyboard input and ignore MappingNotify events will not notice any changes made to keyboard mappings.

       Xmodmap should generate "add" and "remove" expressions automatically whenever a keycode that is already bound
       to a modifier is changed.

       There should be a way to have the remove expression accept keycodes as well as keysyms for those  times  when
       you really mess up your mappings.

AUTHOR
       Jim Fulton, MIT X Consortium, rewritten from an earlier version by David Rosenthal of Sun Microsystems.




X Version 11                                        xmodmap 1.0.8                                         XMODMAP(1)
