Xorg(1)                                        General Commands Manual                                       Xorg(1)



NAME
       Xorg - X11R7 X server

SYNOPSIS
       Xorg [:display] [option ...]

DESCRIPTION
       Xorg  is  a full featured X server that was originally designed for UNIX and UNIX-like operating systems run‐
       ning on Intel x86 hardware.  It now runs on a wider range of hardware and OS platforms.

       This work was derived by the X.Org Foundation from the XFree86 Project's XFree86 4.4rc2 release.  The XFree86
       release was originally derived from X386 1.2 by Thomas Roell which was contributed to X11R5 by Snitily Graph‐
       ics Consulting Service.

PLATFORMS
       Xorg operates under a wide range of operating systems and hardware platforms.  The Intel x86 (IA32) architec‐
       ture  is  the  most widely supported hardware platform.  Other hardware platforms include Compaq Alpha, Intel
       IA64, AMD64, SPARC and PowerPC.  The most widely supported operating systems are  the  free/OpenSource  UNIX-
       like systems such as Linux, FreeBSD, NetBSD, OpenBSD, and Solaris.  Commercial UNIX operating systems such as
       UnixWare are also supported.  Other supported operating systems include GNU Hurd.  Mac OS X is supported with
       the Xquartz(1) X server.  Win32/Cygwin is supported with the XWin(1) X server.

NETWORK CONNECTIONS
       Xorg supports connections made using the following reliable byte-streams:

       Local
           On  most platforms, the "Local" connection type is a UNIX-domain socket.  On some System V platforms, the
           "local" connection types also include STREAMS pipes, named pipes, and some other mechanisms.

       TCPIP
           Xorg listens on port 6000+n, where n is the display number.  This connection type can  be  disabled  with
           the -nolisten option (see the Xserver(1) man page for details).

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       For operating systems that support local connections other than Unix Domain sockets (SVR3 and SVR4), there is
       a compiled-in list specifying the order in which local connections should be attempted.   This  list  can  be
       overridden  by  the XLOCAL environment variable described below.  If the display name indicates a best-choice
       connection should be made (e.g.  :0.0), each connection mechanism is tried until a connection succeeds or  no
       more mechanisms are available.  Note: for these OSs, the Unix Domain socket connection is treated differently
       from the other local connection types.  To use it the connection must be made to unix:0.0.

       The XLOCAL environment variable should contain a list of one more more of the following:

               NAMED
               PTS
               SCO
               ISC

       which represent SVR4 Named Streams pipe, Old-style USL Streams pipe, SCO XSight Streams pipe, and ISC Streams
       pipe,  respectively.   You  can select a single mechanism (e.g.  XLOCAL=NAMED), or an ordered list (e.g. XLO‐
       CAL="NAMED:PTS:SCO").  his variable overrides the compiled-in defaults.  For  SVR4  it  is  recommended  that
       NAMED be the first preference connection.  The default setting is PTS:NAMED:ISC:SCO.

       To globally override the compiled-in defaults, you should define (and export if using sh or ksh) XLOCAL glob‐
       ally.  If you use startx(1) or xinit(1), the definition should be at the top of your .xinitrc file.   If  you
       use xdm(1), the definitions should be early on in the /usr/lib/X11/xdm/Xsession script.

OPTIONS
       Xorg  supports several mechanisms for supplying/obtaining configuration and run-time parameters: command line
       options, environment variables, the xorg.conf(5) configuration files, auto-detection, and fallback  defaults.
       When  the  same  information is supplied in more than one way, the highest precedence mechanism is used.  The
       list of mechanisms is ordered from highest precedence to lowest.  Note that not all parameters  can  be  sup‐
       plied  via all methods.  The available command line options and environment variables (and some defaults) are
       described here and in the Xserver(1) manual page.  Most configuration file parameters, with  their  defaults,
       are  described  in  the  xorg.conf(5)  manual  page.  Driver and module specific configuration parameters are
       described in the relevant driver or module manual page.

       In addition to the normal server options described in the Xserver(1) manual page, Xorg accepts the  following
       command line switches:

       vtXX    XX  specifies the Virtual Terminal device number which Xorg will use.  Without this option, Xorg will
               pick the first available Virtual Terminal that it can locate.  This option applies only to  platforms
               that have virtual terminal support, such as Linux, BSD, OpenSolaris, SVR3, and SVR4.

       -allowMouseOpenFail
               Allow the server to start up even if the mouse device can't be opened or initialised.  This is equiv‐
               alent to the AllowMouseOpenFail xorg.conf(5) file option.

       -allowNonLocalXvidtune
               Make the VidMode extension available to remote clients.  This allows the xvidtune client  to  connect
               from  another  host.   This  is equivalent to the AllowNonLocalXvidtune xorg.conf(5) file option.  By
               default non-local connections are not allowed.

       -bgamma value
               Set the blue gamma correction.  value must be between 0.1 and 10.  The default is 1.0.  Not all driv‐
               ers support this.  See also the -gamma, -rgamma, and -ggamma options.

       -bpp n  No longer supported.  Use -depth to set the color depth, and use -fbbpp if you really need to force a
               non-default framebuffer (hardware) pixel format.

       -config file
               Read the server configuration from file.  This option will work for any file when the server  is  run
               as  root  (i.e,  with real-uid 0), or for files relative to a directory in the config search path for
               all other users.

       -configdir directory
               Read the server configuration files from directory.  This option will work for any directory when the
               server  is run as root (i.e, with real-uid 0), or for directories relative to a directory in the con‐
               fig directory search path for all other users.

       -configure
               When this option is specified, the Xorg server loads all video driver modules, probes  for  available
               hardware,  and  writes out an initial xorg.conf(5) file based on what was detected.  This option cur‐
               rently has some problems on some platforms, but in most cases it is a good way to bootstrap the  con‐
               figuration process.  This option is only available when the server is run as root (i.e, with real-uid
               0).

       -crt /dev/ttyXX
               SCO only.  This is the same as the vt option, and is provided for compatibility with the native SCO X
               server.

       -depth n
               Sets the default color depth.  Legal values are 1, 4, 8, 15, 16, and 24.  Not all drivers support all
               values.

       -disableVidMode
               Disable the parts of the VidMode extension (used by the xvidtune client) that can be used  to  change
               the video modes.  This is equivalent to the DisableVidModeExtension xorg.conf(5) file option.

       -fbbpp n
               Sets  the  number of framebuffer bits per pixel.  You should only set this if you're sure it's neces‐
               sary; normally the server can deduce the correct value from -depth above.  Useful if you want to  run
               a  depth  24 configuration with a 24 bpp framebuffer rather than the (possibly default) 32 bpp frame‐
               buffer (or vice versa).  Legal values are 1, 8, 16, 24, 32.  Not all drivers support all values.

       -flipPixels
               Swap the default values for the black and white pixels.

       -gamma value
               Set the gamma correction.  value must be between 0.1 and 10.  The default  is  1.0.   This  value  is
               applied  equally  to  the R, G and B values.  Those values can be set independently with the -rgamma,
               -bgamma, and -ggamma options.  Not all drivers support this.

       -ggamma value
               Set the green gamma correction.  value must be between 0.1 and 10.  The  default  is  1.0.   Not  all
               drivers support this.  See also the -gamma, -rgamma, and -bgamma options.

       -ignoreABI
               The Xorg server checks the ABI revision levels of each module that it loads.  It will normally refuse
               to load modules with ABI revisions that are newer than the server's.  This is  because  such  modules
               might  use  interfaces that the server does not have.  When this option is specified, mismatches like
               this are downgraded from fatal errors to warnings.  This option should be used with care.

       -isolateDevice bus-id
               Restrict  device  resets  to  the   device   at   bus-id.    The   bus-id   string   has   the   form
               bustype:bus:device:function  (e.g.,  ‘PCI:1:0:0’).  At present, only isolation of PCI devices is sup‐
               ported; i.e., this option is ignored if bustype is anything other than ‘PCI’.

       -keeptty
               Prevent the server from detaching its initial controlling terminal.  This option is only useful  when
               debugging the server.  Not all platforms support (or can use) this option.

       -keyboard keyboard-name
               Use the xorg.conf(5) file InputDevice section called keyboard-name as the core keyboard.  This option
               is ignored when the Layout section specifies a core keyboard.  In the absence of both a  Layout  sec‐
               tion and this option, the first relevant InputDevice section is used for the core keyboard.

       -layout layout-name
               Use  the xorg.conf(5) file Layout section called layout-name.  By default the first Layout section is
               used.

       -logfile filename
               Use the file called filename as the Xorg server log file.  The default log file when running as  root
               is  /var/log/Xorg.n.log  and for non root it is $XDG_DATA_HOME/xorg/Xorg.n.log where n is the display
               number of the Xorg server.  The default may be in a different  directory  on  some  platforms.   This
               option is only available when the server is run as root (i.e, with real-uid 0).

       -logverbose [n]
               Sets  the  verbosity level for information printed to the Xorg server log file.  If the n value isn't
               supplied, each occurrence of this option increments the log file verbosity level.  When the  n  value
               is supplied, the log file verbosity level is set to that value.  The default log file verbosity level
               is 3.

       -modulepath searchpath
               Set the module search path to searchpath.  searchpath is a comma separated  list  of  directories  to
               search  for  Xorg server modules.  This option is only available when the server is run as root (i.e,
               with real-uid 0).

       -nosilk Disable Silken Mouse support.

       -novtswitch
               Disable the automatic switching on X server reset and shutdown to the VT that  was  active  when  the
               server started, if supported by the OS.

       -pixmap24
               Set  the internal pixmap format for depth 24 pixmaps to 24 bits per pixel.  The default is usually 32
               bits per pixel.  There is normally little reason to use this option.  Some client applications  don't
               like  this  pixmap  format,  even  though  it is a perfectly legal format.  This is equivalent to the
               Pixmap xorg.conf(5) file option.

       -pixmap32
               Set the internal pixmap format for depth 24 pixmaps to 32  bits  per  pixel.   This  is  usually  the
               default.  This is equivalent to the Pixmap xorg.conf(5) file option.

       -pointer pointer-name
               Use  the  xorg.conf(5) file InputDevice section called pointer-name as the core pointer.  This option
               is ignored when the Layout section specifies a core pointer.  In the absence of both a Layout section
               and this option, the first relevant InputDevice section is used for the core pointer.

       -quiet  Suppress most informational messages at startup.  The verbosity level is set to zero.

       -rgamma value
               Set  the red gamma correction.  value must be between 0.1 and 10.  The default is 1.0.  Not all driv‐
               ers support this.  See also the -gamma, -bgamma, and -ggamma options.

       -sharevts
               Share virtual terminals with another X server, if supported by the OS.

       -screen screen-name
               Use the xorg.conf(5) file Screen section called screen-name.  By default the  screens  referenced  by
               the default Layout section are used, or the first Screen section when there are no Layout sections.

       -showconfig
               This  is  the  same  as  the  -version  option, and is included for compatibility reasons.  It may be
               removed in a future release, so the -version option should be used instead.

       -showDefaultModulePath
               Print out the default module path the server was compiled with.

       -showDefaultLibPath
               Print out the path libraries should be installed to.

       -showopts
               For each driver module installed, print out the list of options and their argument types.

       -weight nnn
               Set RGB weighting at 16 bpp.  The default is 565.  This applies only to those drivers  which  support
               16 bpp.

       -verbose [n]
               Sets  the  verbosity  level  for  information printed on stderr.  If the n value isn't supplied, each
               occurrence of this option increments the verbosity level.  When the n value  is  supplied,  the  ver‐
               bosity level is set to that value.  The default verbosity level is 0.

       -version
               Print  out  the  server version, patchlevel, release date, the operating system/platform it was built
               on, and whether it includes module loader support.

KEYBOARD
       The Xorg server is normally configured to recognize various special combinations of key presses that instruct
       the  server  to  perform  some  action, rather than just sending the key press event to a client application.
       These actions depend on the XKB keymap loaded by a particular keyboard device and may or may not be available
       on a given configuration.

       The following key combinations are commonly part of the default XKEYBOARD keymap.

       Ctrl+Alt+Backspace
               Immediately  kills  the  server  --  no  questions  asked.  It can be disabled by setting the DontZap
               xorg.conf(5) file option to a TRUE value.

               It should be noted that zapping is triggered by the Terminate_Server action in the keyboard map. This
               action  is  not  part  of  the  default  keymaps  but  can  be  enabled  with  the XKB option "termi‐
               nate:ctrl_alt_bksp".

       Ctrl+Alt+Keypad-Plus
               Change video mode to next one specified in the configuration file.  This can  be  disabled  with  the
               DontZoom xorg.conf(5) file option.

       Ctrl+Alt+Keypad-Minus
               Change video mode to previous one specified in the configuration file.  This can be disabled with the
               DontZoom xorg.conf(5) file option.

       Ctrl+Alt+F1...F12
               For systems with virtual terminal support, these keystroke combinations are used to switch to virtual
               terminals  1  through 12, respectively.  This can be disabled with the DontVTSwitch xorg.conf(5) file
               option.

CONFIGURATION
       Xorg typically uses a configuration file called xorg.conf and configuration files with the suffix .conf in  a
       directory  called  xorg.conf.d  for its initial setup.  Refer to the xorg.conf(5) manual page for information
       about the format of this file.

       Xorg has a mechanism for automatically generating a built-in configuration at run-time when no xorg.conf file
       or xorg.conf.d files are present.  The current version of this automatic configuration mechanism works in two
       ways.

       The first is via enhancements that have made many components of the xorg.conf file optional.  This means that
       information  that can be probed or reasonably deduced doesn't need to be specified explicitly, greatly reduc‐
       ing the amount of built-in configuration information that needs to be generated at run-time.

       The second is to have "safe" fallbacks for most configuration information.   This  maximises  the  likelihood
       that  the  Xorg  server  will  start up in some usable configuration even when information about the specific
       hardware is not available.

       The automatic configuration support for Xorg is work in progress.  It is currently aimed at the most  popular
       hardware and software platforms supported by Xorg.  Enhancements are planned for future releases.

FILES
       The  Xorg  server  config  files  can  be  found  in a range of locations.  These are documented fully in the
       xorg.conf(5) manual page.  The most commonly used locations are shown here.

       /etc/X11/xorg.conf            Server configuration file.

       /etc/X11/xorg.conf-4          Server configuration file.

       /etc/xorg.conf                Server configuration file.

       /usr/etc/xorg.conf            Server configuration file.

       /usr/lib/X11/xorg.conf        Server configuration file.

       /etc/X11/xorg.conf.d          Server configuration directory.

       /etc/X11/xorg.conf.d-4        Server configuration directory.

       /etc/xorg.conf.d              Server configuration directory.

       /usr/etc/xorg.conf.d          Server configuration directory.

       /usr/lib/X11/xorg.conf.d      Server configuration directory.

       /var/log/Xorg.n.log           Server log file for display n.

       /usr/bin/∗                    Client binaries.

       /usr/include/∗                Header files.

       /usr/lib/∗                    Libraries.

       /usr/share/fonts/X11/∗        Fonts.

       /usr/share/X11/XErrorDB       Client error message database.

       /usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/∗   Client resource specifications.

       /usr/share/man/man?/∗         Manual pages.

       /etc/Xn.hosts                 Initial access control list for display n.

SEE ALSO
       X(7),  Xserver(1),  xdm(1),  xinit(1),  xorg.conf(5),  xvidtune(1),  xkeyboard-config  (7),  apm(4),  ati(4),
       chips(4),  cirrus(4),  cyrix(4),  fbdev(4), glide(4), glint(4), i128(4), i740(4), imstt(4), intel(4), mga(4),
       neomagic(4), nsc(4), nv(4), openchrome (4),  r128(4),  rendition(4),  s3virge(4),  siliconmotion(4),  sis(4),
       sunbw2(4),  suncg14(4),  suncg3(4),  suncg6(4), sunffb(4), sunleo(4), suntcx(4), tdfx(4), tga(4), trident(4),
       tseng(4), v4l(4), vesa(4), vmware(4),
       Web site <http://www.x.org>.


AUTHORS
       Xorg has many contributors world wide.  The names of  most  of  them  can  be  found  in  the  documentation,
       ChangeLog files in the source tree, and in the actual source code.

       Xorg  was  originally  based on XFree86 4.4rc2.  That was originally based on X386 1.2 by Thomas Roell, which
       was contributed to the then X Consortium's X11R5 distribution by SGCS.

       Xorg is released by the X.Org Foundation.

       The project that became XFree86 was originally founded in 1992 by David Dawes, Glenn  Lai,  Jim  Tsillas  and
       David Wexelblat.

       XFree86  was later integrated in the then X Consortium's X11R6 release by a group of dedicated XFree86 devel‐
       opers, including the following:

           Stuart Anderson    anderson@metrolink.com
           Doug Anson         danson@lgc.com
           Gertjan Akkerman   akkerman@dutiba.twi.tudelft.nl
           Mike Bernson       mike@mbsun.mlb.org
           Robin Cutshaw      robin@XFree86.org
           David Dawes        dawes@XFree86.org
           Marc Evans         marc@XFree86.org
           Pascal Haible      haible@izfm.uni-stuttgart.de
           Matthieu Herrb     Matthieu.Herrb@laas.fr
           Dirk Hohndel       hohndel@XFree86.org
           David Holland      davidh@use.com
           Alan Hourihane     alanh@fairlite.demon.co.uk
           Jeffrey Hsu        hsu@soda.berkeley.edu
           Glenn Lai          glenn@cs.utexas.edu
           Ted Lemon          mellon@ncd.com
           Rich Murphey       rich@XFree86.org
           Hans Nasten        nasten@everyware.se
           Mark Snitily       mark@sgcs.com
           Randy Terbush      randyt@cse.unl.edu
           Jon Tombs          tombs@XFree86.org
           Kees Verstoep      versto@cs.vu.nl
           Paul Vixie         paul@vix.com
           Mark Weaver        Mark_Weaver@brown.edu
           David Wexelblat    dwex@XFree86.org
           Philip Wheatley    Philip.Wheatley@ColumbiaSC.NCR.COM
           Thomas Wolfram     wolf@prz.tu-berlin.de
           Orest Zborowski    orestz@eskimo.com

       Xorg  source  is  available  from  the  FTP  server   <ftp://ftp.x.org/>,   and   from   the   X.Org   server
       <http://gitweb.freedesktop.org/>.   Documentation  and other information can be found from the X.Org web site
       <http://www.x.org/>.


LEGAL
       Xorg is copyright software, provided under licenses that permit modification and redistribution in source and
       binary  form  without  fee.   Xorg  is  copyright by numerous authors and contributors from around the world.
       Licensing information can be found at <http://www.x.org>.  Refer to the source code  for  specific  copyright
       notices.

       XFree86(TM) is a trademark of The XFree86 Project, Inc.

       X11(TM) and X Window System(TM) are trademarks of The Open Group.



X Version 11                                     xorg-server 1.17.1                                          Xorg(1)
