XRDB(1)                                        General Commands Manual                                       XRDB(1)



NAME
       xrdb - X server resource database utility

SYNOPSIS
       xrdb [-option ...] [filename]

DESCRIPTION
       Xrdb  is  used to get or set the contents of the RESOURCE_MANAGER property on the root window of screen 0, or
       the SCREEN_RESOURCES property on the root window of any or all screens, or everything  combined.   You  would
       normally run this program from your X startup file.

       Most  X clients use the RESOURCE_MANAGER and SCREEN_RESOURCES properties to get user preferences about color,
       fonts, and so on for applications.  Having this information in the server  (where  it  is  available  to  all
       clients)  instead  of  on  disk,  solves  the problem in previous versions of X that required you to maintain
       defaults files on every machine that you might use.  It also allows for dynamic changing of defaults  without
       editing files.

       The  RESOURCE_MANAGER  property  is  used  for  resources  that  apply  to  all  screens of the display.  The
       SCREEN_RESOURCES property on each screen specifies additional (or overriding) resources to be used  for  that
       screen.  (When there is only one screen, SCREEN_RESOURCES is normally not used, all resources are just placed
       in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.)

       The file specified by filename (or the contents from standard input if - or no filename is given) is  option‐
       ally  passed  through the C preprocessor with the following symbols defined, based on the capabilities of the
       server being used:

       SERVERHOST=hostname
               the hostname portion of the display to which you are connected.

       SRVR_name
               the SERVERHOST hostname string turned into a legal  identifier.   For  example,  "my-dpy.lcs.mit.edu"
               becomes SRVR_my_dpy_lcs_mit_edu.

       HOST=hostname
               the same as SERVERHOST.

       DISPLAY_NUM=num
               the number of the display on the server host.

       CLIENTHOST=hostname
               the name of the host on which xrdb is running.

       CLNT_name
               the  CLIENTHOST  hostname  string  turned  into  a legal identifier.  For example, "expo.lcs.mit.edu"
               becomes CLNT_expo_lcs_mit_edu.

       RELEASE=num
               the vendor release number for the server.  The interpretation of this number will vary  depending  on
               VENDOR.

       REVISION=num
               the X protocol minor version supported by this server (currently 0).

       VERSION=num
               the X protocol major version supported by this server (should always be 11).

       VENDOR="vendor"
               a string literal specifying the vendor of the server.

       VNDR_name
               the  VENDOR  name  string  turned  into  a legal identifier.  For example, "MIT X Consortium" becomes
               VNDR_MIT_X_Consortium.

       EXT_name
               A symbol is defined for each protocol extension supported by the server.  Each extension string  name
               is turned into a legal identifier.  For example, "X3D-PEX" becomes EXT_X3D_PEX.

       NUM_SCREENS=num
               the total number of screens.

       SCREEN_NUM=num
               the number of the current screen (from zero).

       BITS_PER_RGB=num
               the  number  of significant bits in an RGB color specification.  This is the log base 2 of the number
               of distinct shades of each primary that the hardware can generate.   Note  that  it  usually  is  not
               related to PLANES.

       CLASS=visualclass
               one  of  StaticGray, GrayScale, StaticColor, PseudoColor, TrueColor, DirectColor.  This is the visual
               class of the root window.

       CLASS_visualclass=visualid
               the visual class of the root window in a form you can #ifdef on.  The value is the numeric id of  the
               visual.

       COLOR   defined only if CLASS is one of StaticColor, PseudoColor, TrueColor, or DirectColor.

       CLASS_visualclass_depth=num
               A  symbol  is defined for each visual supported for the screen.  The symbol includes the class of the
               visual and its depth; the value is the numeric id of the visual.  (If more than one  visual  has  the
               same class and depth, the numeric id of the first one reported by the server is used.)

       HEIGHT=num
               the height of the root window in pixels.

       WIDTH=num
               the width of the root window in pixels.

       PLANES=num
               the number of bit planes (the depth) of the root window.

       X_RESOLUTION=num
               the x resolution of the screen in pixels per meter.

       Y_RESOLUTION=num
               the y resolution of the screen in pixels per meter.

       SRVR_name,  CLNT_name,  VNDR_name,  and EXT_name identifiers are formed by changing all characters other than
       letters and digits into underscores (_).

       Lines that begin with an exclamation mark (!) are ignored and may be used as comments.

       Note that since xrdb can read from standard input, it can be used to the change the  contents  of  properties
       directly from a terminal or from a shell script.

OPTIONS
       xrdb program accepts the following options:

       -help   This  option  (or any unsupported option) will cause a brief description of the allowable options and
               parameters to be printed.

       -version
               This option will cause the xrdb version to be printed and the program to exit without performing  any
               other operations.

       -display display
               This option specifies the X server to be used; see X(7).  It also specifies the screen to use for the
               -screen option, and it specifies the screen from which  preprocessor  symbols  are  derived  for  the
               -global option.

       -all    This  option indicates that operation should be performed on the screen-independent resource property
               (RESOURCE_MANAGER), as well as the screen-specific property (SCREEN_RESOURCES) on every screen of the
               display.   For example, when used in conjunction with -query, the contents of all properties are out‐
               put.  For -load, -override and -merge, the input  file  is  processed  once  for  each  screen.   The
               resources  which  occur in common in the output for every screen are collected, and these are applied
               as the screen-independent resources.  The remaining resources are applied for  each  individual  per-
               screen property.  This the default mode of operation.

       -global This  option  indicates  that  the  operation  should  only  be  performed  on the screen-independent
               RESOURCE_MANAGER property.

       -screen This option indicates that the operation should only be performed on the SCREEN_RESOURCES property of
               the default screen of the display.

       -screens
               This option indicates that the operation should be performed on the SCREEN_RESOURCES property of each
               screen of the display.  For -load, -override and -merge, the input file is processed for each screen.

       -n      This option indicates that changes to the specified properties (when used with  -load,  -override  or
               -merge)  or  to  the resource file (when used with -edit) should be shown on the standard output, but
               should not be performed.

       -quiet  This option indicates that warning about duplicate entries should not be displayed.

       -cpp filename
               This option specifies the pathname of the C preprocessor program  to  be  used.   Although  xrdb  was
               designed  to use CPP, any program that acts as a filter and accepts the -D, -I, and -U options may be
               used.

       -nocpp  This option indicates that xrdb should not run the input file through a preprocessor  before  loading
               it into properties.

       -undef  This  option is passed to the C preprocessor if used. It prevents it from predefining any system spe‐
               cific macros.

       -symbols
               This option indicates that the symbols that are defined for the preprocessor should be  printed  onto
               the standard output.

       -query  This  option  indicates  that the current contents of the specified properties should be printed onto
               the standard output.  Note that since preprocessor commands in the input resource file  are  part  of
               the  input  file,  not  part  of the property, they won't appear in the output from this option.  The
               -edit option can be used to merge the contents of properties back into the input resource file  with‐
               out damaging preprocessor commands.

       -load   This  option  indicates that the input should be loaded as the new value of the specified properties,
               replacing whatever was there (i.e.  the old contents are removed).  This is the default action.

       -override
               This option indicates that the input should be added to, instead of replacing, the  current  contents
               of the specified properties.  New entries override previous entries.

       -merge  This  option  indicates that the input should be merged and lexicographically sorted with, instead of
               replacing, the current contents of the specified properties.

       -remove This option indicates that the specified properties should be removed from the server.

       -retain This option indicates that the server should be instructed not to reset if xrdb is the first  client.
               This  should  never be necessary under normal conditions, since xdm and xinit always act as the first
               client.

       -edit filename
               This option indicates that the contents of the specified properties should be edited into  the  given
               file,  replacing  any values already listed there.  This allows you to put changes that you have made
               to your defaults back into your resource file, preserving any comments or preprocessor lines.

       -backup string
               This option specifies a suffix to be appended to the filename used with -edit to  generate  a  backup
               file.

       -Dname[=value]
               This  option  is passed through to the preprocessor and is used to define symbols for use with condi‐
               tionals such as #ifdef.

       -Uname  This option is passed through to the preprocessor and is used to remove any definitions of this  sym‐
               bol.

       -Idirectory
               This  option  is  passed through to the preprocessor and is used to specify a directory to search for
               files that are referenced with #include.

FILES
       Xrdb does not load any files on its own, but many desktop environments use xrdb to load  ~/.Xresources  files
       on session startup to initialize the resource database, as a generalized replacement for ~/.Xdefaults files.

SEE ALSO
       X(7), appres(1), listres(1), Xlib Resource Manager documentation, Xt resource documentation

ENVIRONMENT
       DISPLAY to figure out which display to use.

BUGS
       The  default  for no arguments should be to query, not to overwrite, so that it is consistent with other pro‐
       grams.

AUTHORS
       Bob Scheifler, Phil Karlton, rewritten from the original by Jim Gettys



X Version 11                                         xrdb 1.1.0                                              XRDB(1)
