XREFRESH(1)                                    General Commands Manual                                   XREFRESH(1)



NAME
       xrefresh - refresh all or part of an X screen

SYNOPSIS
       xrefresh [-option ...]

DESCRIPTION
       Xrefresh  is  a simple X program that causes all or part of your screen to be repainted.  This is useful when
       system messages have messed up your screen.  Xrefresh maps a window on top of the desired area of the  screen
       and  then immediately unmaps it, causing refresh events to be sent to all applications.  By default, a window
       with no background is used, causing all applications to repaint ``smoothly.''  However, the  various  options
       can  be  used to indicate that a solid background (of any color) or the root window background should be used
       instead.

ARGUMENTS
       -white    Use a white background.  The screen just appears to flash quickly, and then repaint.

       -black    Use a black background (in effect, turning off all of the electron guns to the tube).  This can  be
                 somewhat disorienting as everything goes black for a moment.

       -solid color
                 Use a solid background of the specified color.  Try green.

       -root     Use the root window background.

       -none     This is the default.  All of the windows simply repaint.

       -geometry WxH+X+Y
                 Specifies the portion of the screen to be repainted; see X(7).

       -display display
                 This  argument  allows  you  to  specify the server and screen to refresh; see X(7).

X DEFAULTS
       The xrefresh program uses the routine XGetDefault(3) to read defaults, so its resource names are all capital‐
       ized.

       Black, White, Solid, None, Root
               Determines what sort of window background to use.

       Geometry
               Determines the area to refresh.  Not very useful.

ENVIRONMENT
       DISPLAY - To get default host and display number.

SEE ALSO
       X(7)

BUGS
       It should have just one default type for the background.

AUTHORS
       Jim Gettys, Digital Equipment Corp., MIT Project Athena



X Version 11                                       xrefresh 1.0.5                                        XREFRESH(1)
