XSERVER(1)                                     General Commands Manual                                    XSERVER(1)



NAME
       Xserver - X Window System display server

SYNOPSIS
       X [option ...]

DESCRIPTION
       X  is  the  generic  name  for  the X Window System display server.  It is frequently a link or a copy of the
       appropriate server binary for driving the most frequently used server on a given machine.

STARTING THE SERVER
       The X server is usually started from the X Display Manager program xdm(1) or a similar display  manager  pro‐
       gram.  This utility is run from the system boot files and takes care of keeping the server running, prompting
       for usernames and passwords, and starting up the user sessions.

       Installations that run more than one window system may need to use the xinit(1) utility instead of a  display
       manager.   However, xinit is to be considered a tool for building startup scripts and is not intended for use
       by end users.  Site administrators are strongly urged to use a display manager, or build other interfaces for
       novice users.

       The X server may also be started directly by the user, though this method is usually reserved for testing and
       is not recommended for normal operation.  On some platforms, the user must have special permission  to  start
       the X server, often because access to certain devices (e.g. /dev/mouse) is restricted.

       When  the X server starts up, it typically takes over the display.  If you are running on a workstation whose
       console is the display, you may not be able to log into the console while the server is running.

OPTIONS
       Many X servers have device-specific command line options.  See the manual pages for  the  individual  servers
       for more details; a list of server-specific manual pages is provided in the SEE ALSO section below.

       All  of  the  X servers accept the command line options described below.  Some X servers may have alternative
       ways of providing the parameters described here, but the values provided via the command line options  should
       override values specified via other mechanisms.

       :displaynumber
               The  X  server  runs as the given displaynumber, which by default is 0.  If multiple X servers are to
               run simultaneously on a host, each must have a unique display number.  See the DISPLAY NAMES  section
               of the X(7) manual page to learn how to specify which display number clients should try to use.

       -a number
               sets pointer acceleration (i.e. the ratio of how much is reported to how much the user actually moved
               the pointer).

       -ac     disables host-based access control mechanisms.  Enables access by any host, and permits any  host  to
               modify  the access control list.  Use with extreme caution.  This option exists primarily for running
               test suites remotely.

       -audit level
               sets the audit trail level.  The default level is 1, meaning only connection rejections are reported.
               Level  2  additionally  reports all successful connections and disconnects.  Level 4 enables messages
               from the SECURITY extension, if present, including generation and revocation  of  authorizations  and
               violations of the security policy.  Level 0 turns off the audit trail.  Audit lines are sent as stan‐
               dard error output.

       -auth authorization-file
               specifies a file which contains a collection of authorization records used  to  authenticate  access.
               See also the xdm(1) and Xsecurity(7) manual pages.

       -background none
               Asks  the  driver not to clear the background on startup, if the driver supports that.  May be useful
               for smooth transition with eg. fbdev driver.  For security reasons this is not  the  default  as  the
               screen contents might show a previous user session.

       -br     sets the default root window to solid black instead of the standard root weave pattern.   This is the
               default unless -retro or -wr is specified.

       -bs     disables backing store support on all screens.

       -c      turns off key-click.

       c volume
               sets key-click volume (allowable range: 0-100).

       -cc class
               sets the visual class for the root window of color screens.  The class numbers are  as  specified  in
               the X protocol.  Not obeyed by all servers.

       -core   causes the server to generate a core dump on fatal errors.

       -displayfd fd
               specifies  a  file  descriptor in the launching process.  Rather than specify a display number, the X
               server will attempt to listen on successively higher display numbers, and upon finding  a  free  one,
               will  write  the display number back on this file descriptor as a newline-terminated string.  The -pn
               option is ignored when using -displayfd.

       -deferglyphs whichfonts
               specifies the types of fonts for which the server should  attempt  to  use  deferred  glyph  loading.
               whichfonts can be all (all fonts), none (no fonts), or 16 (16 bit fonts only).

       -dpi resolution
               sets  the  resolution for all screens, in dots per inch.  To be used when the server cannot determine
               the screen size(s) from the hardware.

       dpms    enables DPMS (display power management services), where supported.  The default state is platform and
               configuration specific.

       -dpms   disables  DPMS  (display power management services).  The default state is platform and configuration
               specific.

       -extensionextensionName
               disables named extension.   If an unknown extension name is specified, a list of  accepted  extension
               names is printed.

       +extensionextensionName
               enables  named  extension.    If an unknown extension name is specified, a list of accepted extension
               names is printed.

       -f volume
               sets beep (bell) volume (allowable range: 0-100).

       -fc cursorFont
               sets default cursor font.

       -fn font
               sets the default font.

       -fp fontPath
               sets the search path for fonts.  This path is a comma separated  list  of  directories  which  the  X
               server  searches  for font databases.  See the FONTS section of this manual page for more information
               and the default list.

       -help   prints a usage message.

       -I      causes all remaining command line arguments to be ignored.

       -maxbigreqsize size
               sets the maximum big request to size MB.

       -nocursor
               disable the display of the pointer cursor.

       -nolisten trans-type
               disables a transport type.  For example, TCP/IP connections can be disabled with -nolisten tcp.  This
               option may be issued multiple times to disable listening to different transport types.

       -noreset
               prevents a server reset when the last client connection is closed.  This overrides a previous -termi‐
               nate command line option.

       -p minutes
               sets screen-saver pattern cycle time in minutes.

       -pn     permits the server to continue running if it fails to establish all of its well-known  sockets  (con‐
               nection points for clients), but establishes at least one.  This option is set by default.

       -nopn   causes  the  server to exit if it fails to establish all of its well-known sockets (connection points
               for clients).

       -r      turns off auto-repeat.

       r       turns on auto-repeat.

       -retro  starts the stipple with the classic stipple and cursor visible.  The default is to start with a black
               root  window,  and  to  suppress display of the cursor until the first time an application calls XDe‐
               fineCursor().  For the Xorg server, this also sets the default for the DontZap option to FALSE.   For
               kdrive servers, this implies -zap.

       -s minutes
               sets screen-saver timeout time in minutes.

       -su     disables save under support on all screens.

       -seat seat
               seat  to  run on. Takes a string identifying a seat in a platform specific syntax. On platforms which
               support this feature this may be used to limit the server to expose only a specific subset of devices
               connected to the system.

       -t number
               sets pointer acceleration threshold in pixels (i.e. after how many pixels pointer acceleration should
               take effect).

       -terminate
               causes the server to terminate at server reset, instead of continuing to run.  This overrides a  pre‐
               vious -noreset command line option.

       -to seconds
               sets default connection timeout in seconds.

       -tst    disables all testing extensions (e.g., XTEST, XTrap, XTestExtension1, RECORD).

       ttyxx   ignored, for servers started the ancient way (from init).

       v       sets video-off screen-saver preference.

       -v      sets video-on screen-saver preference.

       -wm     forces  the default backing-store of all windows to be WhenMapped.  This is a backdoor way of getting
               backing-store to apply to all windows.  Although all mapped windows  will  have  backing  store,  the
               backing  store attribute value reported by the server for a window will be the last value established
               by a client.  If it has never been set by a client, the server will report the default value, NotUse‐
               ful.   This  behavior  is  required by the X protocol, which allows the server to exceed the client's
               backing store expectations but does not provide a way to tell the client that it is doing so.

       -wr     sets the default root window to solid white instead of the standard root weave pattern.

       -x extension
               loads the specified extension at init.  This is a no-op for most implementations.

       [+-]xinerama
               enables(+) or disables(-) the XINERAMA extension.  The default state is  platform  and  configuration
               specific.

SERVER DEPENDENT OPTIONS
       Some X servers accept the following options:

       -ld kilobytes
               sets  the data space limit of the server to the specified number of kilobytes.  A value of zero makes
               the data size as large as possible.  The default value of -1 leaves the data space limit unchanged.

       -lf files
               sets the number-of-open-files limit of the server to the specified number.  A value of zero makes the
               limit as large as possible.  The default value of -1 leaves the limit unchanged.

       -ls kilobytes
               sets the stack space limit of the server to the specified number of kilobytes.  A value of zero makes
               the stack size as large as possible.  The default value of -1 leaves the stack space limit unchanged.

       -render default|mono|gray|color sets the color allocation policy that will be used by the render extension.

               default selects the default policy defined for the display depth of the X server.

               mono    don't use any color cell.

               gray    use a gray map of 13 color cells for the X render extension.

               color   use a color cube of at most 4*4*4 colors (that is 64 color cells).

       -dumbSched
               disables smart scheduling on platforms that support the smart scheduler.

       -schedInterval interval
               sets the smart scheduler's scheduling interval to interval milliseconds.

XDMCP OPTIONS
       X servers that support XDMCP have the following options.  See the X Display Manager Control Protocol specifi‐
       cation for more information.

       -query hostname
               enables XDMCP and sends Query packets to the specified hostname.

       -broadcast
               enable XDMCP and broadcasts BroadcastQuery packets to the network.  The first responding display man‐
               ager will be chosen for the session.

       -multicast [address [hop count]]
               Enable XDMCP and multicast BroadcastQuery packets to the  network.  The first responding display man‐
               ager  is  chosen for the session.  If an address is specified, the multicast is sent to that address.
               If no address is specified, the multicast is sent to the default XDMCP IPv6 multicast  group.   If  a
               hop  count  is  specified, it is used as the maximum hop count for the multicast.  If no hop count is
               specified, the multicast is set to a maximum of 1 hop, to prevent the  multicast  from  being  routed
               beyond the local network.

       -indirect hostname
               enables XDMCP and send IndirectQuery packets to the specified hostname.

       -port port-number
               uses the specified port-number for XDMCP packets, instead of the default.  This option must be speci‐
               fied before any -query, -broadcast, -multicast, or -indirect options.

       -from local-address
               specifies the local address to connect from (useful if  the  connecting  host  has  multiple  network
               interfaces).   The local-address may be expressed in any form acceptable to the host platform's geth‐
               ostbyname(3) implementation.

       -once   causes the server to terminate (rather than reset) when the XDMCP session ends.

       -class display-class
               XDMCP has an additional display qualifier used in resource lookup for display-specific options.  This
               option sets that value, by default it is "MIT-Unspecified" (not a very useful value).

       -cookie xdm-auth-bits
               When  testing XDM-AUTHENTICATION-1, a private key is shared between the server and the manager.  This
               option sets the value of that private data (not that it is very private, being on the command line!).

       -displayID display-id
               Yet another XDMCP specific value, this one allows the display manager to  identify  each  display  so
               that it can locate the shared key.

XKEYBOARD OPTIONS
       X servers that support the XKEYBOARD (a.k.a. "XKB") extension accept the following options.  All layout files
       specified on the command line must be located in the XKB base directory or a subdirectory, and  specified  as
       the relative path from the XKB base directory.  The default XKB base directory is /usr/lib/X11/xkb.

       [+-]accessx [ timeout [ timeout_mask [ feedback [ options_mask ] ] ] ]
               enables(+) or disables(-) AccessX key sequences.

       -xkbdir directory
               base  directory  for keyboard layout files.  This option is not available for setuid X servers (i.e.,
               when the X server's real and effective uids are different).

       -ardelay milliseconds
               sets the autorepeat delay (length of time in milliseconds that a key must be depressed before autore‐
               peat starts).

       -arinterval milliseconds
               sets  the  autorepeat interval (length of time in milliseconds that should elapse between autorepeat-
               generated keystrokes).

       -xkbmap filename
               loads keyboard description in filename on server startup.

NETWORK CONNECTIONS
       The X server supports client connections via a platform-dependent subset of the  following  transport  types:
       TCPIP,  Unix  Domain sockets, DECnet, and several varieties of SVR4 local connections.  See the DISPLAY NAMES
       section of the X(7) manual page to learn how to specify which transport type clients should try to use.

GRANTING ACCESS
       The X server implements a platform-dependent subset of  the  following  authorization  protocols:  MIT-MAGIC-
       COOKIE-1, XDM-AUTHORIZATION-1, XDM-AUTHORIZATION-2, SUN-DES-1, and MIT-KERBEROS-5.  See the Xsecurity(7) man‐
       ual page for information on the operation of these protocols.

       Authorization data required by the above protocols is passed to the server in a private file named  with  the
       -auth  command  line  option.  Each time the server is about to accept the first connection after a reset (or
       when the server is starting), it reads this file.  If this file contains any authorization records, the local
       host  is not automatically allowed access to the server, and only clients which send one of the authorization
       records contained in the file in the connection setup information will be allowed access.  See the Xau manual
       page  for  a  description  of the binary format of this file.  See xauth(1) for maintenance of this file, and
       distribution of its contents to remote hosts.

       The X server also uses a host-based access control list for deciding whether or  not  to  accept  connections
       from clients on a particular machine.  If no other authorization mechanism is being used, this list initially
       consists of the host on which the server is running as well as any machines listed in the file /etc/Xn.hosts,
       where  n  is the display number of the server.  Each line of the file should contain either an Internet host‐
       name (e.g. expo.lcs.mit.edu) or a DECnet hostname in double colon format (e.g. hydra::) or a complete name in
       the format family:name as described in the xhost(1) manual page.  There should be no leading or trailing spa‐
       ces on any lines.  For example:

               joesworkstation
               corporate.company.com
               star::
               inet:bigcpu
               local:

       Users can add or remove hosts from this list and enable or disable access control  using  the  xhost  command
       from the same machine as the server.

       If the X FireWall Proxy (xfwp) is being used without a sitepolicy, host-based authorization must be turned on
       for clients to be able to connect to the X server via the xfwp.  If xfwp is run without a configuration  file
       and  thus no sitepolicy is defined, if xfwp is using an X server where xhost + has been run to turn off host-
       based authorization checks, when a client tries to connect to this X server via xfwp, the X server will  deny
       the connection.  See xfwp(1) for more information about this proxy.

       The  X  protocol intrinsically does not have any notion of window operation permissions or place any restric‐
       tions on what a client can do; if a program can connect to a display, it has  full  run  of  the  screen.   X
       servers  that  support the SECURITY extension fare better because clients can be designated untrusted via the
       authorization they use to connect; see the xauth(1) manual page for details.   Restrictions  are  imposed  on
       untrusted clients that curtail the mischief they can do.  See the SECURITY extension specification for a com‐
       plete list of these restrictions.

       Sites that have better authentication and authorization systems might wish to make use of the  hooks  in  the
       libraries and the server to provide additional security models.

SIGNALS
       The X server attaches special meaning to the following signals:

       SIGHUP  This  signal causes the server to close all existing connections, free all resources, and restore all
               defaults.  It is sent by the display manager whenever the main user's main  application  (usually  an
               xterm or window manager) exits to force the server to clean up and prepare for the next user.

       SIGTERM This signal causes the server to exit cleanly.

       SIGUSR1 This signal is used quite differently from either of the above.  When the server starts, it checks to
               see if it has inherited SIGUSR1 as SIG_IGN instead of the usual SIG_DFL.  In this  case,  the  server
               sends  a  SIGUSR1 to its parent process after it has set up the various connection schemes.  Xdm uses
               this feature to recognize when connecting to the server is possible.

FONTS
       The X server can obtain fonts from directories and/or from font servers.  The list of  directories  and  font
       servers the X server uses when trying to open a font is controlled by the font path.

       The        default       font       path       is       /usr/share/fonts/X11/misc,/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyril‐
       lic,/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled,/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled,/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1,/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi,/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi,built-
       ins .

       A  special kind of directory can be specified using the catalogue: prefix. Directories specified this way can
       contain symlinks pointing to the real font directories. See the FONTPATH.D section for details.

       The font path can be set with the -fp option or by xset(1) after the server has started.

FONTPATH.D
       You can specify a special kind of font path in the form catalogue:<dir>.  The directory specified  after  the
       catalogue: prefix will be scanned for symlinks and each symlink destination will be added as a local fontfile
       FPE.

       The symlink can be suffixed by attributes such as 'unscaled', which will be passed through to the  underlying
       fontfile FPE. The only exception is the newly introduced 'pri' attribute, which will be used for ordering the
       font paths specified by the symlinks.

       An example configuration:

           75dpi:unscaled:pri=20 -> /usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi
           ghostscript:pri=60 -> /usr/share/fonts/default/ghostscript
           misc:unscaled:pri=10 -> /usr/share/X11/fonts/misc
           type1:pri=40 -> /usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1
           type1:pri=50 -> /usr/share/fonts/default/Type1

       This will add /usr/share/X11/fonts/misc as the first FPE with the attribute 'unscaled', second  FPE  will  be
       /usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi,  also  with the attribute 'unscaled' etc. This is functionally equivalent to set‐
       ting the following font path:

           /usr/share/X11/fonts/misc:unscaled,
           /usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi:unscaled,
           /usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1,
           /usr/share/fonts/default/Type1,
           /usr/share/fonts/default/ghostscript


FILES
       /etc/Xn.hosts                 Initial access control list for display number n

       /usr/share/fonts/X11/misc,/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi,/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi
                                     Bitmap font directories

       /usr/share/fonts/X11/TTF,/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1
                                     Outline font directories

       /tmp/.X11-unix/Xn             Unix domain socket for display number n

       /usr/adm/Xnmsgs               Error log file for display number n if run from init(8)

       /usr/lib/X11/xdm/xdm-errors   Default error log file if the server is run from xdm(1)

SEE ALSO
       General information: X(7)

       Protocols: X Window System Protocol, The X Font Service Protocol, X Display Manager Control Protocol

       Fonts: bdftopcf(1), mkfontdir(1), mkfontscale(1), xfs(1), xlsfonts(1), xfontsel(1), xfd(1),  X  Logical  Font
       Description Conventions

       Keyboards: xkeyboard-config(7)

       Security: Xsecurity(7), xauth(1), Xau(1), xdm(1), xhost(1), xfwp(1), Security Extension Specification

       Starting the server: startx(1), xdm(1), xinit(1)

       Controlling the server once started: xset(1), xsetroot(1), xhost(1), xinput(1), xrandr(1)

       Server-specific man pages: Xorg(1), Xdmx(1), Xephyr(1), Xnest(1), Xvfb(1), Xquartz(1), XWin(1).

       Server internal documentation: Definition of the Porting Layer for the X v11 Sample Server

AUTHORS
       The  sample server was originally written by Susan Angebranndt, Raymond Drewry, Philip Karlton, and Todd New‐
       man, from Digital Equipment Corporation, with support from a large  cast.   It  has  since  been  extensively
       rewritten  by Keith Packard and Bob Scheifler, from MIT.  Dave Wiggins took over post-R5 and made substantial
       improvements.



X Version 11                                     xorg-server 1.15.1                                       XSERVER(1)
