xsetwacom(1)                                   General Commands Manual                                  xsetwacom(1)



NAME
       xsetwacom - commandline utility to query and modify wacom driver settings.

SYNOPSIS
       xsetwacom [options] [command [arguments]]


DESCRIPTION
       This  program  queries  or  changes properties on the devices loaded by the wacom driver. The modification of
       properties happens at runtime and is not persistent through X server restarts.

GENERAL OPTIONS
       -d, --display display_name
              Connect to the X server specified in display_name; see X(7).

       -h, --help
              Prints a short help.

       -v, --verbose
              Enable verbose output, useful for debugging.

       -V, --version
              Display version number and exit.


COMMANDS
       Allowed commands are list, get, and set.  The command may be specified with or without one or  two  preceding
       dashes, i.e.  --list is equivalent to -list and list.


   LIST COMMANDS
       list devices
              List known devices. Only input devices managed by the wacom driver are listed.

       list parameters
              List  known parameters. List all parameters suitable for the get or the set command. Note that not all
              parameters are available on all device types.

       list modifiers
              List the aliases for modifiers and other keys that can be used when setting button action mappings.


   GET COMMANDS
       get device_name parameter
              Get the current settings for the parameter on the given device.  Note  that  not  all  parameters  are
              available on all device types. The special parameter name "all" may be provided to display all current
              settings on the device.

       By default, options are printed on the commandline in the respective format.
              The output format may be altered with one of the following options:

       -s, --shell
              Display the output in shell format, i.e. as shell commands to xsetwacom to reproduce the same  parame‐
              ter.

       -x, --xconf
              Display the output in xorg.conf format, i.e. as option lines that may be added to the InputDevice sec‐
              tion in the xorg.conf.


   SET COMMANDS
       set device_name parameter [value]
              Set the parameter value on the given device to the value provided. Note that not  all  parameters  are
              writable, some are read-only and result in an error when trying to be modified.


PARAMETERS
       Not all parameters are available on all tools.  Use the get command with the parameter or "all" parameter for
       specific input tool applicable parameters and current settings.

       Area x1 y1 x2 y2
              Set the tablet input area in device coordinates in the form top left x/y and  bottom  right  x/y.  Top
              left  and  bottom right are defined in the device's native orientation, regardless of the actual rota‐
              tion currently applied. Input outside of these coordinates will be clipped to the edges  of  the  area
              defined.  Default:  0 0 x2 y2; with x2 and y2 tablet specific.

       Button button-number [mapping]
              Set  a mapping for the specified button-number. Mappings take the form of either a single numeric but‐
              ton or an 'action' to be performed. If no mapping is provided, the default mapping is restored.

              Numeric button mappings indicate what X11 button number the given button-number should correspond  to.
              For  example,  a  mapping  of "3" means a press of the given button-number will produce a press of X11
              button 3 (i.e. right click).

              Action mappings allow button presses to perform many events. They take the form of a  string  of  key‐
              words and arguments.

              The  "key"  keyword  is  following by a list of key names. These can optionally be preceded by "+" for
              press and "-" for release. If +/- is not given, press-and-release is assumed, except for modifier keys
              which  are  left  pressed.   Key names can be X11 KeySyms or some aliases such as 'shift' or 'f1' (the
              full list can be seen with the list modifiers command).

              For example, "key +a +shift b -shift -a" converts the button into a  series  of  keystrokes,  in  this
              example "press a, press shift, press and release b, release shift, release a".

              The "button" keyword is similar except that its arguments are X11 button numbers.

              The  "modetoggle"  keyword  is  also  recognized;  it  takes no arguments, and toggles the device mode
              between relative and absolute pointer tracking.

              The events in the action mapping are sent when the physical button is pressed.  If the action  mapping
              leaves  any  buttons or keys pressed (such as a modifier key), they will be released when the physical
              button is released.

              Multiple keywords may be present in one action if desired: for example "key +ctrl button 5 key -ctrl".
              Each keyword takes all arguments until the next keyword.

              A maximum of 256 presses and/or releases can be specified in an action mapping.

              The  driver can only simulate physical key events but not keysyms and xsetwacom translates the mapping
              sequence into such events. Thus, symbols on the same physical key will generate the  same  event.  For
              example, '1' and '!' are on the same key on a US keyboard and thus have the same keycode).  For access
              to keys on a higher shift level, the sequence should be entered as it would be  typed  on  a  physical
              keyboard. For example, a exclamation mark is entered by the sequence of "key +shift 1 -shift".

       BindToSerial [serial|0]
              Bind  the  device  to  the  tool  with the specified serial number. Once bound, the device will ignore
              events from other tools. A serial of 0 means the device is unbound and will react to any tool  of  the
              matching type.  Default: 0

       MapToOutput [output]
              Map  the tablet's input area to a given output (e.g. "VGA1"). Output names may either be the name of a
              head available through the XRandR extension, or an X11 geometry string of the  form  WIDTHxHEIGHT+X+Y.
              To  switch to the next available output, the "next" keyword is also supported. This will cycle between
              the individual monitors connected to the system, and then the entire desktop. The mapping may be reset
              to  the  entire  desktop at any time with the output name "desktop". Users of the NVIDIA binary driver
              should use the output names "HEAD-0" and "HEAD-1" until the driver supports XRandR 1.2 or later.

              The output mapping configuration is a onetime setting and does not track output reconfigurations;  the
              command  needs to be re-run whenever the output configuration changes. When used with tablet rotation,
              the tablet must be rotated before it is mapped to the new screen. This  parameter  is  write-only  and
              cannot be queried.

       Mode Absolute|Relative
              Set  the  device  mode  as either Relative or Absolute. Relative means pointer tracking for the device
              will function like a mouse, whereas Absolute means the pointer  corresponds  to  the  device's  actual
              position  on  the  tablet  or  tablet  PC screen.  Default:  Absolute for stylus, eraser and tablet PC
              touch; Relative for cursor and tablet touch.

       PressureCurve x1 y1 x2 y2
              A Bezier curve of third order, composed of two anchor points (0,0 and 100,100) and two user modifiable
              control  points that define the curve's shape.  Raise the curve (x1<y1 x2<y2) to "soften" the feel and
              lower the curve (x1>y1 x2>y2) for a "firmer" feel.  Sigmoid shaped curves are permitted  (x1>y1  x2<y2
              or x1<y1 x2>y2).  Default:  0 0 100 100, a linear curve; range of 0 to 100 for all four values.

       RawSample level
              Set  the  sample  window  size  (a  sliding  average sampling window) for incoming input tool raw data
              points.  Default:  4, range of 1 to 20.

       Rotate none|half|cw|ccw
              Set the tablet to the given rotation:
                none: the tablet is not rotated and uses its natural rotation
                half: the tablet is rotated by 180 degrees (upside-down)
                cw: the tablet is rotated 90 degrees clockwise
                ccw: the tablet is rotated 90 degrees counter-clockwise

              Rotation is a tablet-wide option: rotation of one tool affects all other  tools  associated  with  the
              same  tablet. When the tablet is physically rotated, rotate any tool to the corresponding orientation.
              Default:  none

       Suppress level
              Set the delta (difference) cutoff level for further processing of incoming input tool coordinate  val‐
              ues.  For example a X or Y coordinate event will be sent only if the change between the current X or Y
              coordinate and the previous one is greater than the Suppress value.   The  same  applies  to  pressure
              level (Z coordinate) and Tilt rotation values.  With a current absolute wheel (AbsWheel) or Tilt value
              the delta between it and the previous value must be equal to or greater than  the  Suppress  value  in
              order to be sent on.  Suppress is a tablet wide parameter.  A specified delta level for one input tool
              is applied to all input tool coordinates.  To disable suppression use a  level  of  0.   Default:   2,
              range of 0 to 100.

       TabletDebugLevel level
              Set  the  debug level for this tablet to the given level. This only affects code paths that are shared
              between several tools on the same physical tablet. A higher level means more fine-grained  debug  mes‐
              sages,  a level of 0 turns debugging off for this tool. Requires the driver to be built with debugging
              enabled. See also ToolDebugLevel.  Default:  0, range of 0 to 12.

       TabletPCButton on|off
              If on, the stylus must be in contact with the screen for a stylus side button to work.  If off, stylus
              buttons  will work once the stylus is in proximity of the tablet (regardless of whether it is touching
              the screen).  Default:  on for Tablet PCs; off for all other models.

       ToolSerialPrevious
              Get the serial number of the tool that was last in proximity last. This serial number is updated when‐
              ever  the tool goes out of proximity. If the current tool went out of proximity once, this serial num‐
              ber is the one of the current tool. This is a read-only parameter.

       Touch on|off
              If on, touch events are reported to userland, i.e., system cursor moves when user touches the  tablet.
              If  off,  touch events are ignored. Default: on for devices that support touch; off for all other mod‐
              els.

       HWTouchSwitchState on|off
              If on, it means touch switch is turned off. That is, touch events are reported to  userland.  If  off,
              touch  switch  is  turned  on, i.e., touch events are ignored.  This is a read-only parameter. Initial
              touch switch state is retrieved from the kernel when X driver starts.

       CursorProximity distance
              sets the max distance from tablet to stop reporting movement for cursor in relative mode. Default  for
              Intuos series is 10, for Graphire series (including Volitos) is 42. Only available for the cursor/puck
              device.

       Threshold level
              Set the minimum pressure necessary to generate a Button event for the stylus tip,  eraser,  or  touch.
              The  pressure  levels of all tablets are normalized to 2048 levels irregardless of the actual hardware
              supported levels.  This parameter is independent of the PressureCurve parameter.  Default:  27,  range
              of 0 to 2047.

       ToolDebugLevel level
              Set  the  debug level for this tool to the given level. This only affects code paths that are specific
              to a given tool. A higher level means more fine-grained debug messages, a level of 0  turns  debugging
              off  for this tool. Requires the driver to be built with debugging enabled. See also TabletDebugLevel.
              Default:  0, range of 0 to 12.

       PressureRecalibration on|off
              If the initial pressure of a device is != 0 the driver recalibrates the pressure  range.  This  is  to
              account  for  worn out devices.  The downside is that when the user hits the tablet very hard the ini‐
              tial pressure reading may be unequal to zero even for a perfectly good pen. If the  consecutive  pres‐
              sure  readings  are not higher than the initial pressure by a threshold no button event will be gener‐
              ated.  This option allows to disable the recalibration.  Default:  on



AUTHORS
       Peter Hutterer <peter.hutterer@redhat.com>


SEE ALSO
       Xorg(1), wacom(4), xorg.conf(5), X(7)

       More information is available at http://linuxwacom.sourceforge.net



X Version 11                                   xf86-input-wacom 0.25.0                                  xsetwacom(1)
