XSM(1)                                         General Commands Manual                                        XSM(1)



NAME
       xsm - X Session Manager

SYNOPSIS
       xsm [-display display] [-session sessionName] [-verbose]

DESCRIPTION
       xsm  is  a session manager.  A session is a group of applications, each of which has a particular state.  xsm
       allows you to create arbitrary sessions - for example, you might have a "light" session, a "development" ses‐
       sion,  or  an "xterminal" session.  Each session can have its own set of applications.  Within a session, you
       can perform a "checkpoint" to save application state, or a "shutdown" to save state  and  exit  the  session.
       When  you  log  back  in  to  the system, you can load a specific session, and you can delete sessions you no
       longer want to keep.

       Some session managers simply allow you to manually specify a list of applications to be started in a session.
       xsm is more powerful because it lets you run applications and have them automatically become part of the ses‐
       sion.  On a simple level, xsm is useful because it gives you this ability to easily define which applications
       are  in a session.  The true power of xsm, however, can be taken advantage of when more and more applications
       learn to save and restore their state.

OPTIONS
       -display display
               Causes xsm to connect to the specified X display.

       -session sessionName
               Causes xsm to load the specified session, bypassing the session menu.

       -verbose
               Turns on debugging information.

SETUP
   .xsession file
       Using xsm requires a change to your .xsession file:

       The last program executed by your .xsession file should be xsm.   With  this  configuration,  when  the  user
       chooses to shut down the session using xsm, the session will truly be over.

       Since the goal of the session manager is to restart clients when logging into a session, your .xsession file,
       in general, should not directly start up applications.  Rather, the applications should be started  within  a
       session.   When  xsm  shuts down the session, xsm will know to restart these applications.  Note however that
       there are some types of applications that are not "session aware".  xsm allows  you  to  manually  add  these
       applications to your session (see the section titled Client List).

   SM_SAVE_DIR environment variable
       If  the SM_SAVE_DIR environment variable is defined, xsm will save all configuration files in this directory.
       Otherwise, they will be stored in the user's home directory.  Session aware applications are also  encouraged
       to save their checkpoint files in the SM_SAVE_DIR directory, although the user should not depend on this con‐
       vention.

   Default Startup Applications
       The first time xsm is started, it will need to locate a list of applications to start up.  For example,  this
       list  might  include a window manager, a session management proxy, and an xterm.  xsm will first look for the
       file .xsmstartup in the user's home directory.  If that file does not exist, it will look for the  system.xsm
       file that was set up at installation time.  Note that xsm provides a "fail safe" option when the user chooses
       a session to start up.  The fail safe option simply loads the default applications described above.

       Each line in the startup file should contain a command to start an application.  A sample startup file  might
       look this:

       <start of file>
       twm
       smproxy
       xterm
       <end of file>

STARTING A SESSION
       When  xsm  starts up, it first checks to see if the user previously saved any sessions.  If no saved sessions
       exist, xsm starts up a set of default applications (as described above in the section titled Default  Startup
       Applications).   If  at  least  one  session exists, a session menu is presented.  The [-session sessionName]
       option forces the specified session to be loaded, bypassing the session menu.

   The session menu
       The session menu presents the user with a list of sessions to choose from.  The user can change the currently
       selected  session  with  the  mouse,  or by using the up and down arrows on the keyboard.  Note that sessions
       which are locked (i.e. running on a different display) can not be loaded or deleted.

       The following operations can be performed from the session menu:

       Load Session          Pressing this button will load the currently selected session.  Alternatively,  hitting
                             the  Return  key  will also load the currently selected session, or the user can double
                             click a session from the list.

       Delete Session        This operation will delete the currently selected session, along with all of the appli‐
                             cation  checkpoint  files associated with the session.  After pressing this button, the
                             user will be asked to press the button a second time in order to confirm the operation.

       Default/Fail Safe     xsm will start up a set of default applications (as  described  above  in  the  section
                             titled  Default  Startup  Applications).  This is useful when the user wants to start a
                             fresh session, or if the session configuration files were corrupted and the user  wants
                             a "fail safe" session.

       Cancel                Pressing  this  button will cause xsm to exit.  It can also be used to cancel a "Delete
                             Session" operation.

CONTROLLING A SESSION
       After xsm determines which session to load, it brings up its main window, then  starts  up  all  applications
       that  are  part of the session.  The title bar for the session manager's main window will contain the name of
       the session that was loaded.

       The following options are available from xsm's main window:

       Client List       Pressing this button brings up a window containing a list of all clients that  are  in  the
                         current  session.   For each client, the host machine that the client is running on is pre‐
                         sented.  As clients are added and removed from the session, this list is updated to reflect
                         the changes.  The user is able to control how these clients are restarted (see below).

                         By pressing the View Properties button, the user can view the session management properties
                         associated with the currently selected client.

                         By pressing the Clone button, the user can start a copy of the selected application.

                         By pressing the Kill Client button, the user can remove a client from the session.

                         By selecting a restart hint from the Restart Hint menu, the user can control the restarting
                         of a client.  The following hints are available:

                         -  The  Restart  If  Running hint indicates that the client should be restarted in the next
                         session if it is connected to the session manager at the end of the current session.

                         - The Restart Anyway hint indicates that the client should be restarted in the next session
                         even if it exits before the current session is terminated.

                         -  The Restart Immediately hint is similar to the Restart Anyway hint, but in addition, the
                         client is meant to run continuously.  If the client exits, the session manager will try  to
                         restart it in the current session.

                         - The Restart Never hint indicates that the client should not be restarted in the next ses‐
                         sion.

                         Note that all X applications may not be "session aware".  Applications that are not session
                         aware  are  ones  that  do not support the X Session Management Protocol or they can not be
                         detected by the Session Management Proxy (see the section titled THE  PROXY).   xsm  allows
                         the  user  to manually add such applications to the session.  The bottom of the Client List
                         window contains a text entry field in which application commands can  be  typed  in.   Each
                         command  should  go  on  its  own line.  This information will be saved with the session at
                         checkpoint or shutdown time.  When the session is restarted, xsm will restart these  appli‐
                         cations in addition to the regular "session aware" applications.

                         Pressing the Done button removes the Client List window.

       Session Log...    The  Session Log window presents useful information about the session.  For example, when a
                         session is restarted, all of the restart commands will be displayed in the log window.

       Checkpoint        By performing a checkpoint, all applications that are in the  session  are  asked  to  save
                         their  state.   Not  every  application will save its complete state, but at a minimum, the
                         session manager is guaranteed that it will receive the  command  required  to  restart  the
                         application  (along  with all command line options).  A window manager participating in the
                         session should guarantee that the applications will come back up with the same window  con‐
                         figurations.

                         If  the  session being checkpointed was never assigned a name, the user will be required to
                         specify a session name.  Otherwise, the user can perform the checkpoint using  the  current
                         session  name,  or  a  new  session  name  can be specified.  If the session name specified
                         already exists, the user will be given the opportunity to specify a different  name  or  to
                         overwrite  the  already  existing  session.  Note that a session which is locked can not be
                         overwritten.

                         When performing a checkpoint, the user must specify a Save Type which informs the  applica‐
                         tions in the session how much state they should save.

                         The Local type indicates that the application should save enough information to restore the
                         state as seen by the user.  It should not affect the state as seen  by  other  users.   For
                         example,  an  editor  would  create a temporary file containing the contents of its editing
                         buffer, the location of the cursor, etc...

                         The Global type indicates that the application should commit all of its data to  permanent,
                         globally accessible storage.  For example, the editor would simply save the edited file.

                         The  Both  type  indicates  that the application should do both of these.  For example, the
                         editor would save the edited file, then create a temporary file with  information  such  as
                         the location of the cursor, etc...

                         In addition to the Save Type, the user must specify an Interact Style.

                         The None type indicates that the application should not interact with the user while saving
                         state.

                         The Errors type indicates that the application may interact with the user only if an  error
                         condition arises.

                         The  Any  type  indicates  that the application may interact with the user for any purpose.
                         Note that xsm will only allow one application to interact with the user at a time.


                         After the checkpoint is completed, xsm will, if necessary, display a window containing  the
                         list of applications which did not report a successful save of state.

       Shutdown          A  shutdown  provides  all of the options found in a checkpoint, but in addition, can cause
                         the session to exit.  Note that if the interaction style is Errors or  Any,  the  user  may
                         cancel  the  shutdown.   The  user  may also cancel the shutdown if any of the applications
                         report an unsuccessful save of state.

                         The user may choose to shutdown the session with our without performing a checkpoint.

HOW XSM RESPONDS TO SIGNALS
       xsm will respond to a SIGTERM signal by performing a shutdown with the following options: fast,  no  interac‐
       tion, save type local.  This allows the user's session to be saved when the system is being shutdown.  It can
       also be used to perform a remote shutdown of a session.

       xsm will respond to a SIGUSR1 signal by performing a checkpoint with the following options:  no  interaction,
       save type local.  This signal can be used to perform a remote checkpoint of a session.

THE PROXY
       Since  not  all  applications  have been ported to support the X Session Management Protocol, a proxy service
       exists to allow "old" clients to work with the session manager.  In order for the proxy to detect an applica‐
       tion joining a session, one of the following must be true:

       - The application maps a top level window containing the WM_CLIENT_LEADER property.  This property provides a
       pointer to the client leader window which contains the WM_CLASS, WM_NAME, WM_COMMAND,  and  WM_CLIENT_MACHINE
       properties.

       or ...

       -  The  application  maps  a top level window which does not contain the WM_CLIENT_LEADER property.  However,
       this top level window contains the WM_CLASS, WM_NAME, WM_COMMAND, and WM_CLIENT_MACHINE properties.

       An application that support the WM_SAVE_YOURSELF protocol will receive a WM_SAVE_YOURSELF client message each
       time  the session manager issues a checkpoint or shutdown.  This allows the application to save state.  If an
       application does not support the WM_SAVE_YOURSELF protocol, then the proxy will provide enough information to
       the session manager to restart the application (using WM_COMMAND), but no state will be restored.

REMOTE APPLICATIONS
       xsm requires a remote execution protocol in order to restart applications on remote machines.  Currently, xsm
       supports the rstart protocol.  In order to restart an application on remote machine X, machine  X  must  have
       rstart installed.  In the future, additional remote execution protocols may be supported.

SEE ALSO
       smproxy(1), rstart(1)

AUTHORS
       Ralph Mor, X Consortium
       Jordan Brown, Quarterdeck Office Systems



X Version 11                                          xsm 1.0.3                                               XSM(1)
