xvidtune(1)                                    General Commands Manual                                   xvidtune(1)



NAME
       xvidtune - video mode tuner for Xorg

SYNOPSIS
       xvidtune [ -show | -prev | -next | -unlock ] [ -toolkitoption ... ]

DESCRIPTION
       Xvidtune is a client interface to the X server video mode extension (XFree86-VidModeExtension).

       When  given  one  of  the  non-toolkit options, xvidtune provides a command line interface to either print or
       switch the video mode.

       Without any options (or with only toolkit options) it presents the user with various buttons and sliders that
       can  be used to interactively adjust existing video modes.  It will also print the settings in a format suit‐
       able for inclusion in an xorg.conf file.

       Normally the Xorg X servers only allow changes to be made with the XFree86-VidModeExtension from clients con‐
       nected via a local connection type.

       Note:   The original mode settings can be restored by pressing the `R' key, and this can be used to restore a
       stable screen in situations where the screen becomes unreadable.

       The available buttons are:

       Left
       Right
       Up
       Down
                 Adjust the video mode so that the display will be moved in the appropriate direction.

       Wider
       Narrower
       Shorter
       Taller
                 Adjust the video mode so that the display size is altered appropriately.

       Quit      Exit the program.

       Apply     Adjust the current video mode to match the selected settings.

       Auto      Cause the Up/Down/Right/Left, Wider/Narrower/Shorter/Taller, Restore, and the special S3 buttons to
                 be applied immediately.  This button can be toggled.

       Test      Temporarily switch to the selected settings.

       Restore   Return the settings to their original values.

       Fetch     Query the server for its current settings.

       Show      Print the currently selected settings to stdout in xorg.conf "Modeline" format.  The primary selec‐
                 tion is similarly set.

       Next      Switch the Xserver to the next video mode.

       Prev      Switch the Xserver to the previous video mode.

       For some S3-based cards (964 and 968) the following are also available:

       InvertVCLK
                 Change the VCLK invert/non-invert state.

       EarlySC   Change the Early SC state.  This affects screen wrapping.

       BlankDelay1
       BlankDelay2
                 Set the blank delay values.  This affects screen wrapping.  Acceptable values are in the range 0-7.
                 The  values  may be incremented or decremented with the `+' and `-' buttons, or by pressing the `+'
                 or `-' keys in the text field.

       For S3-864/868 based cards InvertVCLK and BlankDelay1  may  be  useful.   For  S3  Trio32/Trio64  cards  only
       InvertVCLK  is available.  At the moment there are no default settings available for these chips in the video
       mode extension and thus this feature is disabled in xvidtune.  It can  be  enabled  by  setting  any  of  the
       optional S3 commands in the screen section of xorg.conf, e.g. using
                 blank_delay "∗" 0

OPTIONS
       xvidtune accepts the standard X Toolkit command line options as well as the following:

       -show     Print the current settings to stdout in xorg.conf "Modeline" format and exit.

       -prev     Switch the Xserver to the previous video mode.

       -next     Switch the Xserver to the next video mode.

       -unlock   Normally,  xvidtune will disable the switching of video modes via hot-keys while it is running.  If
                 for some reason the program did not exit cleanly and they are still disabled, the  program  can  be
                 re-run with this option to re-enable the mode switching key combinations.

SEE ALSO
       xrandr(1), Xorg(1), xorg.conf(5).

AUTHORS
       Kaleb S. Keithley, X Consortium.
       Additions and modifications by Jon Tombs, David Dawes, and Joe Moss.

BUGS
       X Error handling, i.e. when the server does not allow xvidtune clients to write new modes, could be better.



X Version 11                                       xvidtune 1.0.3                                        xvidtune(1)
