XWININFO(1)                                    General Commands Manual                                   XWININFO(1)



NAME
       xwininfo - window information utility for X

SYNOPSIS
       xwininfo  [-help] [-id id] [-root] [-name name] [-int] [-children] [-tree] [-stats] [-bits] [-events] [-size]
       [-wm] [-shape] [-frame] [-all] [-english] [-metric] [-display display]

DESCRIPTION
       Xwininfo is a utility for displaying information about windows.  Various information is  displayed  depending
       on which options are selected.  If no options are chosen, -stats is assumed.

       The  user  has  the option of selecting the target window with the mouse (by clicking any mouse button in the
       desired window) or by specifying its window id on the command line with the -id option.  Or instead of speci‐
       fying  the  window by its id number, the -name option may be used to specify which window is desired by name.
       There is also a special -root option to quickly obtain information on the screen's root window.

OPTIONS
       -help   Print out the `Usage:' command syntax summary.

       -id id  This option allows the user to specify a target window id on the command line rather than  using  the
               mouse  to select the target window.  This is very useful in debugging X applications where the target
               window is not mapped to the screen or where the use of the mouse might  be  impossible  or  interfere
               with the application.

       -name name
               This option allows the user to specify that the window named name is the target window on the command
               line rather than using the mouse to select the target window.

       -root   This option specifies that X's root window is the target window.  This is useful in situations  where
               the root window is completely obscured.

       -int    This option specifies that all X window ids should be displayed as integer values.  The default is to
               display them as hexadecimal values.

       -children
               This option causes the root, parent, and children windows' ids and names of the selected window to be
               displayed.

       -tree   This option is like -children but displays all children recursively.

       -stats  This option causes the display of various attributes pertaining to the location and appearance of the
               selected window.  Information displayed includes the location of the window, its  width  and  height,
               its  depth, border width, visual id and class, colormap id if any, map state, backing-store hint, and
               location of the corners.

       -bits   This option causes the display of various attributes pertaining to the selected window's raw bits and
               how  the  selected  window is to be stored.  Displayed information includes the selected window's bit
               gravity, window gravity, backing-store hint, backing-planes value, backing pixel, and whether or  not
               the window has save-under set.

       -events This  option causes the selected window's event masks to be displayed.  Both the event mask of events
               wanted by some client and the event mask of events not to propagate are displayed.

       -size   This option causes the selected  window's  sizing  hints  to  be  displayed.   Displayed  information
               includes:  for both the normal size hints and the zoom size hints, the user supplied location if any;
               the program supplied location if any; the user supplied size if any; the  program  supplied  size  if
               any;  the minimum size if any; the maximum size if any; the resize increments if any; and the minimum
               and maximum aspect ratios if any.

       -wm     This option causes the selected window's window manager hints to be displayed.  Information displayed
               may  include  whether  or not the application accepts input, what the window's icon window # and name
               is, where the window's icon should go, and what the window's initial state should be.

       -shape  This option causes the selected window's window and border shape extents to be displayed.

       -frame  This option causes window manager frames to be considered when manually selecting windows.

       -metric This option causes all individual height, width, and x and y positions to be displayed in millimeters
               as  well  as number of pixels, based on what the server thinks the resolution is. Geometry specifica‐
               tions that are in +x+y form are not changed.

       -english
               This option causes all individual height, width, and x and y positions to be displayed in inches (and
               feet,  yards,  and  miles if necessary) as well as number of pixels. -metric and -english may both be
               enabled at the same time.

       -all    This option is a quick way to ask for all information possible.

       -display display
               This option allows you to specify the server to connect to; see X(7).

EXAMPLE
       The following is a sample summary taken with no options specified:

       xwininfo: Window id: 0x60000f "xterm"

         Absolute upper-left X: 2
         Absolute upper-left Y: 85
         Relative upper-left X:  0
         Relative upper-left Y:  25
         Width: 579
         Height: 316
         Depth: 8
         Visual: 0x1e
         Visual Class: PseudoColor
         Border width: 0
         Class: InputOutput
         Colormap: 0x27 (installed)
         Bit Gravity State: NorthWestGravity
         Window Gravity State: NorthWestGravity
         Backing Store State: NotUseful
         Save Under State: no
         Map State: IsViewable
         Override Redirect State: no
         Corners:  +2+85  -699+85  -699-623  +2-623
         -geometry 80x24+0+58


ENVIRONMENT
       DISPLAY To get the default host and display number.

SEE ALSO
       X(7), xprop(1), xdpyinfo(1), xdriinfo(1), xvinfo(1), glxinfo(1)

BUGS
       Using -stats -bits shows some redundant information.

       The -geometry string displayed must make assumptions about the window's border width and the behavior of  the
       application and the window manager.  As a result, the location given is not always correct.

AUTHOR
       Mark Lillibridge, MIT Project Athena



X Version 11                                       xwininfo 1.1.3                                        XWININFO(1)
