XWUD(1)                                        General Commands Manual                                       XWUD(1)



NAME
       xwud - image displayer for X

SYNOPSIS
       xwud  [-in  file]  [-noclick]  [-geometry geom] [-display display] [-new] [-std <maptype>] [-raw] [-vis <vis-
       type-or-id>] [-scale] [-help] [-rv] [-plane number] [-fg color] [-bg color] [-dumpheader]

DESCRIPTION
       Xwud is an X Window System image undumping utility.  Xwud allows X users to display  in  a  window  an  image
       saved in a specially formatted dump file, such as produced by xwd(1).

OPTIONS
       -bg color
               If  a  bitmap  image (or a single plane of an image) is displayed, this option can be used to specify
               the color to display for the "0" bits in the image.

       -display display
               This option allows you to specify the server to connect to; see X(7).

       -dumpheader
               This option prints out the XWD header information only.  Nothing is displayed.

       -fg color
               If a bitmap image (or a single plane of an image) is displayed, this option can be  used  to  specify
               the color to display for the "1" bits in the image.

       -geometry geom
               This  option allows you to specify the size and position of the window.  Typically you will only want
               to specify the position, and let the size default to the actual size of the image.

       -help   Print out a short description of the allowable options.

       -in file
               This option allows the user to explicitly specify the input file on the command line.   If  no  input
               file is given, the standard input is assumed.

       -new    This option forces creation of a new colormap for displaying the image.  If the image characteristics
               happen to match those of the display, this can get the image on the screen faster, but at the cost of
               using a new colormap (which on most displays will cause other windows to go technicolor).

       -noclick
               Clicking  any  button  in the window will terminate the application, unless this option is specified.
               Termination can always be achieved by typing 'q', 'Q', or ctrl-c.

       -plane number
               You can select a single bit plane of the image to display with this option.  Planes are numbered with
               zero being the least significant bit.

       -raw    This  option forces the image to be displayed with whatever color values happen to currently exist on
               the screen.  This option is mostly useful when undumping an image back onto the same screen that  the
               image  originally  came from, while the original windows are still on the screen, and results in get‐
               ting the image on the screen faster.

       -rv     If a bitmap image (or a single plane of an image) is displayed, this option forces the foreground and
               background  colors  to  be  swapped.  This may be needed when displaying a bitmap image which has the
               color sense of pixel values "0" and "1" reversed from what they are on your display.

       -scale  Allow the window to be resized, and scale the image to the size of the window.

       -std maptype
               This option causes the image to be displayed using the specified  Standard  Colormap.   The  property
               name is obtained by converting the type to upper case, prepending "RGB_", and appending "_MAP".  Typ‐
               ical types are "best", "default", and "gray".  See xstdcmap(1) for one way of creating Standard  Col‐
               ormaps.

       -vis vis-type-or-id
               This  option  allows  you to specify a particular visual or visual class.  The default is to pick the
               "best" one.  A particular class can be specified: "StaticGray", "GrayScale", "StaticColor",  "Pseudo‐
               Color",  "DirectColor",  or  "TrueColor".  Or "Match" can be specified, meaning use the same class as
               the source image.  Alternatively, an exact visual id (specific  to  the  server)  can  be  specified,
               either  as  a hexadecimal number (prefixed with "0x") or as a decimal number.  Finally, "default" can
               be specified, meaning to use the same class as the colormap of the root window.  Case is not signifi‐
               cant in any of these strings.

ENVIRONMENT
       DISPLAY To get default display.

FILES
       XWDFile.h
               X Window Dump File format definition file.

BUGS
       xwud doesn't handle big/deep images very well on servers that don't have the BIG-REQUESTS extension.

SEE ALSO
       xwd(1), xstdcmap(1), X(7)

AUTHOR
       Bob Scheifler, MIT X Consortium





X Version 11                                         xwud 1.0.4                                              XWUD(1)
