ZMORE(1)                                       General Commands Manual                                      ZMORE(1)



NAME
       zmore - file perusal filter for crt viewing of compressed text

SYNOPSIS
       zmore [ name ...  ]

DESCRIPTION
       Zmore  is  a  filter  which allows examination of compressed or plain text files one screenful at a time on a
       soft-copy terminal.  zmore works on files compressed with compress, pack or gzip, and  also  on  uncompressed
       files.   If  a file does not exist, zmore looks for a file of the same name with the addition of a .gz, .z or
       .Z suffix.

       Zmore normally pauses after each screenful, printing --More-- at the bottom of the screen.  If the user  then
       types  a  carriage  return,  one more line is displayed.  If the user hits a space, another screenful is dis‐
       played.  Other possibilities are enumerated later.

       Zmore looks in the file /etc/termcap to determine terminal characteristics, and to determine the default win‐
       dow size.  On a terminal capable of displaying 24 lines, the default window size is 22 lines.  To use a pager
       other than the default more, set environment variable PAGER to the name of the desired program, such as less.

       Other sequences which may be typed when zmore pauses, and their effects, are as follows  (i  is  an  optional
       integer argument, defaulting to 1) :

       i<space>
              display i more lines, (or another screenful if no argument is given)

       ^D     display 11 more lines (a ``scroll'').  If i is given, then the scroll size is set to i.

       d      same as ^D (control-D)

       iz     same as typing a space except that i, if present, becomes the new window size.

       is     skip i lines and print a screenful of lines

       if     skip i screenfuls and print a screenful of lines

       q or Q Quit.

       =      Display the current line number.

       i/expr search  for  the i-th occurrence of the regular expression expr.  The user's erase and kill characters
              may be used to edit the regular expression.  Erasing back past the first  column  cancels  the  search
              command.

       in     search for the i-th occurrence of the last regular expression entered.

       !command
              invoke  a shell with command.  The character `!' in "command" is replaced with the previous shell com‐
              mand.  The sequence "\!" is replaced by "!".

       :q or :Q
              Quit (same as q or Q).

       .      (dot) repeat the previous command.

       The commands take effect immediately, i.e., it is not necessary to type a carriage return.  Up  to  the  time
       when  the command character itself is given, the user may hit the line kill character to cancel the numerical
       argument being formed.  In addition, the user may hit the erase character to redisplay the --More-- message.

       At any time when output is being sent to the terminal, the user can hit the quit  key  (normally  control-\).
       Zmore  will  stop sending output, and will display the usual --More-- prompt.  The user may then enter one of
       the above commands in the normal manner.  Unfortunately, some output is lost when this is done,  due  to  the
       fact that any characters waiting in the terminal's output queue are flushed when the quit signal occurs.

       The  terminal is set to noecho mode by this program so that the output can be continuous.  What you type will
       thus not show on your terminal, except for the / and !  commands.

       If the standard output is not a teletype, then zmore acts just like zcat, except that  a  header  is  printed
       before each file if there is more than one file.

FILES
       /etc/termcap
              Terminal data base

SEE ALSO
       more(1), gzip(1), zdiff(1), zgrep(1), znew(1), zforce(1), gzexe(1)



                                                                                                            ZMORE(1)
