ADDFTINFO(1)                                                      ADDFTINFO(1)



NAME
       addftinfo - add information to troff font files for use with groff

SYNOPSIS
       addftinfo [ -v ] [ -param value...  ] res unitwidth font

DESCRIPTION
       addftinfo  reads a troff font file and adds some additional font-metric
       information that is used by the groff system.  The font file  with  the
       information  added  is written on the standard output.  The information
       added is guessed using some parametric information about the  font  and
       assumptions about the traditional troff names for characters.  The main
       information added is the heights and depths of characters.  The res and
       unitwidth  arguments should be the same as the corresponding parameters
       in the DESC file; font is the name of the file describing the font;  if
       font ends with I the font will be assumed to be italic.

OPTIONS
       -v prints the version number.

       All  other options changes one of the parameters that is used to derive
       the heights and depths.  Like the existing quantities in the font file,
       each  value  is in inches/res for a font whose point size is unitwidth.
       param must be one of:

       x-height
              The height of lowercase letters without ascenders such as x.

       fig-height
              The height of figures (digits).

       asc-height
              The height of characters with ascenders, such as b, d or l.

       body-height
              The height of characters such as parentheses.

       cap-height
              The height of uppercase letters such as A.

       comma-depth
              The depth of a comma.

       desc-depth
              The depth of characters with descenders, such as p,q, or y.

       body-depth
              The depth of characters such as parentheses.

       addftinfo makes no attempt to use the specified parameters to guess the
       unspecified  parameters.   If  a parameter is not specified the default
       will be used.  The defaults are chosen to have  the  reasonable  values
       for a Times font.

SEE ALSO
       groff_font(5), groff(1), groff_char(7)



Groff Version 1.19.2             27 June 2001                     ADDFTINFO(1)
