
asctl(1)                  BSD General Commands Manual                 asctl(1)

NAME
     asctl -- App Sandbox Control Tool

SYNOPSIS
     asctl [-p] [-l] command [arguments]

DESCRIPTION
     asctl is a facility for manipulating the filesystem container for an
     applications using App Sandbox.  A container is a per-application
     filesytem hierarchy rooted in ~/Library/Containers.

GENERAL COMMANDS
     help    Prints a summary of commands and their behaviours.

     sandbox check <app specification>
             Determines with the given application is signed with App Sandbox
             entitlements.  In addition, if the application is specified by
             pid using the --pid syntax, prints out whether the application is
             actually running with App Sandbox enabled, a traditional sandbox,
             or no sandbox at all.

CONTAINER MANAGEMENT COMMANDS
     The following commands manage filesystem containers for sandboxed apps.

     container path <app specification>
             Print the path to the application's container.

     container create <app specification>
             Create and initialize the application's container.  Containers
             are normally created automatically when sandboxed applications
             are run.  This command creates the container for an application
             without running the application.

     container upgrade <app specification>
             Upgrade the application's container to the current container
             schema.  Existing containers are normally automatically upgraded
             to the latest container schema when their associated applications
             are run.  This command upgrades an existing container without
             running the associated application.

     container repair <app specification>
             Repair a container's structure by re-creating missing files and
             symlinks, repairing file permissions so that files are owned by
             and accessible to the current user, and rebuilding the applica-
             tion's sandbox information.  This operation may require autho-
             rization by the user.

CONTAINER ACL MANAGEMENT COMMANDS
     Each container has an access control list comprised of code requirements.
     A sandboxed application must satify one or more of the code requirements
     on their container in order to run.

     The following commands manipulate the container's access control list:

     container acl add <app specification>
              Update the access control list for the application's container
              to include the application's designated code requirement.

     container acl add <app specification> <code requirement>
              Update the access control list for the application's container
              to include the specified code requirement.

     container acl update <app specification>
              Update the access control list for the application's container
              such that it consists of only the application's designated code
              requirement.  Any other code requirements will be removed from
              the ACL.

     container acl list <app specification>
              Print list of code requirements in the access control list for
              the given application's container.

     container acl validate <app specification>
              Validate the application against each of the code requirements
              in its container's access control list.  Each code requirement
              in the ACL is labeled with one of the following:

              [FAIL]   application does not validate against code requirement.

              [VALID]  application validates against code requirement.

              [EXACT]  application validates against code requirement and code
                       requirement is the same as the application's designated
                       code requirement.

     container acl verify <app specification>
              Synonym for acl validate.

SYMLINK SUPPORT COMMANDS
     App Sandbox will follow any symlinks in the paths to users' home directo-
     ries.  In addition, it has a whitelist of other locations where it will
     acknowledge and honor symbolic links.  Any symlinks not in this whitelist
     will not be followed and, as a result, App Sandboxed applications will
     not have access to the paths that the symlinks refer to.

     The following command displays the whitelist of paths where App Sandbox
     will acknowledge symlinks at:

     symlink list <path ...>
              Display the list of paths that App Sandbox searches for symlinks
              and, for any paths that are symlinks, display where the symlinks
              currently resolve to.

DIAGNOSTIC COMMAND
     Collect diagnostic information related to Application Sandboxing and con-
     tainers.  The information is collected into a single file that can be
     sent to Apple to aid in diagnosing problems when an application runs
     inside of a sandbox.  Should you choose to send the diagnostic informa-
     tion to Apple, then you must agree to this disclaimer:

     This diagnostic tool generates files  that  allow  Apple  to  investigate
     issues  with  your  computer  and help Apple to improve its products. The
     generated files may contain some of your personal information, which  may
     include,  but not be limited to, the serial number or similar unique num-
     ber for your device, your user name, your file  names  or  your  computer
     name.  The  information  is  used by Apple in accordance with its privacy
     policy (www.apple.com/privacy) and is not shared with  any  third  party.
     By  enabling  this  diagnostic  tool  and sending a copy of the generated
     files to Apple, you are consenting to Apple's use of the content of  such
     files.

     Additional information concerning a specific application can be gathered
     via the app subcommand.  This command must be run as 'root'.

     The following command collects diagnostic information:

     diagnose [--no-compress | --no-disclaimer | --no-reveal | --no-verbose]
              [app <app specification>]
              Collection diagnostic information. Outputs the path to the
              folder or file containing the information.
              Optional arguments:

              --no-compress
                       Do not compress the folder containing the dianostic
                       files into a Zip file.

              --no-disclaimer
                       Do not show the disclaimer. Use of this option consti-
                       tutes acceptance of the disclaimer.

              --no-reveal
                       Do not reveal the resulting diagnostic file in Finder.

              --no-verbose
                       Do not show verbose output while running the diagnos-
                       tic.

              Optional subcommand:

              app <app specification>
                       Specify an application for which additional information
                       will be gathered.

GLOBAL OPTIONS
     -p       By default, asctl displays paths relative to the user's home
              directory.  This flag causes any paths in the output to be dis-
              played as absolute paths instead.

     -l       Write internal logging information to a temporary file.

APPLICATION SPECIFIERS
     Many commands require an application specification as one of their argu-
     ments.  Applications can be specified any of the following ways:

     <name>  The application name as it appears in the Applications folder,
             with or without the .app extension.  For example, "TextEdit".

     <path>  The path to the application binary or bundle.  For example,
                   /Applications/TextEdit.app.

     --file <path>
             Explicitly indicate the following argument is to be interpreted
             as the path to the application binary or bundle.  The --file flag
             removes ambiguity when an argument can be interpreted as either
             an application name or a valid path to an application.  For exam-
             ple,
                   --file /Applications/TextEdit.app.

     --bundle <bundle Id>
             Interpret the following argument as the bunder identifier of the
             application.  For example,
                   --bundle com.apple.TextEdit.

     --pid <process Id>
             Interpret the following argument as the process identifier of a
             running application.  For example,
                   --pid 1.

     --container-path <path to container>
             Interpret the following argument as a path to an existing con-
             tainer and determine the application for that container .  For
             example,
                   --container-path ~/Library/Containers/com.apple.TextEdit.

FILES
     ~/Library/Containers
             The user's containers folder.

SEE ALSO
     codesign(1)

HISTORY
     The asctl command first appeared in Mac OS X Version 10.7.

Darwin                         February 20, 2014                        Darwin
