
assetutil(1)              BSD General Commands Manual             assetutil(1)

NAME
     assetutil process asset catalog .car files

SYNOPSIS
     assetutil [-ViotshMg] inputfile

DESCRIPTION
     assetutil inspects or processes a .car file generated from an asset cata-
     log, removing requested scale factors, device idioms, subtypes, graphics
     feature set classes and memory classes.

     A list of flags and their descriptions:

     -V       version information for assetutil

     -I       Produce a JSON description of the asset catalog object with the
              given name to --output directory if given or to stdout if no
              output path given. If no name is provided, report on the con-
              tents of the entire car file.

     -i       Keep all assets that have idiom that is given on the command
              line.

     -s       Keep all assets that have scale factor that is given on the com-
              mand line, present scale factors will not be removed if there is
              no fallback available.

     -M       Keep all assets that have memory class that is given on the com-
              mand line, present memory class will not be removed if there is
              no fallback available.

     -g       Keep all assets that have graphics class that is given on the
              command line. The present graphics class will not be removed if
              there is no fallback available.

     -h       process the hosted idioms list, this is a list of the idioms
              that must always be preserved in the car file. This list cannot
              contain universal, and the different idioms should be given in a
              comma separated list.

     -i       Idiom to keep. Can be one of universal/phone/pad.

     -t       Subtype to keep integer Main Assets.car file used to supply the
              names of the assets to the -I (--info) and the dump options -d
              (--dump) and -D (--dump-stack).

     -o       Output file name, if no output file is given then input file is
              overwritten.

Darwin                           Aug 18, 2015                           Darwin
