
avbdiagnose(1)            BSD General Commands Manual           avbdiagnose(1)

NAME
     avbdiagnose -- diagnostic tool for AVB.

SYNOPSIS
     avbdiagnose

DESCRIPTION
     The avbdiagnose tool is used to capture a snapshot of the current AVB
     system state and help diagnose common issues with AVB.

     avbdiagnose looks for the system to determine that it actually has AVB
     capable interfaces and that at least one of these has been enabled.

     avbdiagnose will produce a number of warnings which may not be errors
     depending on the setup of the system.  Things such as missing local or
     remote attributes for MSRP will be flagged as a warning but is not an
     error if the Mac is not sourcing or sinking streams as appropriate for
     the warning.

     avbdiagnose will flag potential errors and warnings and suggest filing a
     radar report at http://bugreporter.apple.com.  Please attach the gener-
     ated file at /tmp/avbdiagnose-<date>.bz2 to the bug report. An error or
     warning report may be the result of a network device. Please use your
     best judgement before filing the bug report.

     The following options are available:

     --no-enumeration
         Disable the reading of the AVDECC AEM from the device and archiving
         it in the result.

     --no-coreaudio
         Disable dumping of the state of the AVB audio driver device tree.

     --acmp-state
         Enabled reading of and dumping the ACMP state of the entities.

     --stream-info
         Enable sending of the AVDECC AECP AEM GET_STREAM_INFO command to each
         of the possible stream sources and sinks and including in the info
         dump.

     --stream-counters
         Enable sending of the AVDECC AECP AEM GET_COUNTER command to each of
         the possible stream sources and sinks and including in the info dump.

FILES
     /tmp/avbdiagnose-<date>.bz2                   output The information
                                                   gathered by avbdiagnose
                                                   including the command line
                                                   output, an ioreg dump and
                                                   the current system.log and
                                                   kernel.log files.

Darwin                         February 14, 2016                        Darwin
