
CHGRP(1)                  BSD General Commands Manual                 CHGRP(1)

NAME
     chgrp -- change group

SYNOPSIS
     chgrp [-fhv] [-R [-H | -L | -P]] group file ...

DESCRIPTION
     The chgrp utility sets the group ID of the file named by each file oper-
     and to the group ID specified by the group operand.

     The following options are available:

     -f      The force option ignores errors, except for usage errors and
             doesn't query about strange modes (unless the user does not have
             proper permissions).

     -H      If the -R option is specified, symbolic links on the command line
             are followed.  (Symbolic links encountered in the tree traversal
             are not followed).

     -h      If the file is a symbolic link, the group ID of the link itself
             is changed rather than the file that is pointed to.

     -L      If the -R option is specified, all symbolic links are followed.

     -P      If the -R option is specified, no symbolic links are followed.
             This is the default. Use -h to change the group ID of a symbolic
             link.

     -R      Change the group ID for the file hierarchies rooted in the files
             instead of just the files themselves.

     -v      Cause chgrp to be verbose, showing files as the group is modi-
             fied.

     The -H, -L and -P options are ignored unless the -R option is specified.
     In addition, these options override each other and the command's actions
     are determined by the last one specified.

     The group operand can be either a group name from the group database, or
     a numeric group ID.  If a group name is also a numeric group ID, the op-
     erand is used as a group name.

     The user invoking chgrp must belong to the specified group and be the
     owner of the file, or be the super-user.

DIAGNOSTICS
     The chgrp utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

COMPATIBILITY
     In previous versions of this system, symbolic links did not have groups.

     The -v option is non-standard and its use in scripts is not recommended.

FILES
     /etc/group  group ID file

SEE ALSO
     chown(2), fts(3), group(5), passwd(5), symlink(7), chown(8)

STANDARDS
     The chgrp utility is expected to be IEEE Std 1003.2 (``POSIX.2'') compat-
     ible.

BSD                             March 31, 1994                             BSD
