
CSREQ(1)                  BSD General Commands Manual                 CSREQ(1)

NAME
     csreq -- Expert tool for manipulating Code Signing Requirement data

SYNOPSIS
     csreq [-v] -r requirement-input -t
     csreq [-v] -r requirement-input -b outputfile

DESCRIPTION
     The csreq command manipulates Code Signing Requirement data.  It reads
     one requirement from a file or command arguments, converts it into inter-
     nal form, checks it, and then optionally outputs it in a different form.

     The options are as follows:

     -b path
             Requests that the requirement read be written in binary form to
             the path given.

     -r requirement-input
             Specifies the input requirement. See "specifying requirements"
             below. This is exactly the same format as is accepted by the -r
             and -R options of the codesign(1) command.

     -t      Requests that the requirement read be written as text to standard
             output.

     -v      Increases the verbosity of output. Multiple instances of -v pro-
             duce increasing levels of commentary output.

     In the first synopsis form, csreq reads a Code Requirement and writes it
     to standard output as canonical source text.  Note that with text input,
     this actually compiles the requirement into internal form and then con-
     verts it back to text, giving you the system's view of the requirement
     code.

     In the second synopsis form, csreq reads a Code Requirement and writes
     its binary representation to a file. This is the same form produced by
     the SecRequirementCopyData API, and is readily acceptable as input to
     Code Signing verification APIs. It can also be used as input to subse-
     quent invocations of csreq by passing the filename to the -r option.

SPECIFYING REQUIREMENTS
     The requirement argument (-r) can be given in various forms. A plain text
     argument is taken to be a path to a file containing the requirement. This
     program will accept both binary files containing properly compiled
     requirements code, and source files that are automatically compiled for
     use.  An argument of "-" requests that the requirement(s) are read from
     standard input.  Again, standard input can contain either binary form or
     text.  Finally, an argument that begins with an equal sign "=" is taken
     as a literal requirements source text, and is compiled accordingly for
     use.

EXAMPLES
     To compile an explicit requirement program and write its binary form to
     file "output":
           csreq -r="identifier com.foo.test" -b output.csreq

     To display the requirement program embedded at offset 1234 of file "foo":
           tail -b 1234 foo | csreq -r- -t

FILES
DIAGNOSTICS
     The csreq program exits 0 on success or 1 on failure. Errors in arguments
     yield exit code 2.

SEE ALSO
     codesign(1)

HISTORY
     The csreq command first appeared in Mac OS 10.5.0 .

BSD                              June 1, 2006                              BSD
