curl-config(1)                curl-config manual                curl-config(1)



NAME
       curl-config - Get information about a libcurl installation

SYNOPSIS
       curl-config [options]

DESCRIPTION
       curl-config  displays  information about the curl and libcurl installa-
       tion.

OPTIONS
       --ca   Displays the built-in path to the CA cert  bundle  this  libcurl
              uses.

       --cc   Displays the compiler used to build libcurl.

       --cflags
              Set  of  compiler  options  (CFLAGS) to use when compiling files
              that use libcurl. Currently that is only the include path to the
              curl include files.

       --checkfor [version]
              Specify the oldest possible libcurl version string you want, and
              this script will return 0 if the  current  installation  is  new
              enough  or  it returns 1 and outputs a text saying that the cur-
              rent version is not new enough. (Added in 7.15.4)

       --configure
              Displays the arguments given to configure when building curl.

       --feature
              Lists what particular main features the  installed  libcurl  was
              built  with.  At the time of writing, this list may include SSL,
              KRB4 or IPv6. Do not assume any particular order.  The  keywords
              will  be  separated by newlines. There may be none, one, or sev-
              eral keywords in the list.

       --help Displays the available options.

       --libs Shows the complete set of libs and other linker options you will
              need in order to link your application with libcurl.

       --prefix
              This  is  the prefix used when libcurl was installed. Libcurl is
              then installed in $prefix/lib and its header files are installed
              in  $prefix/include and so on. The prefix is set with "configure
              --prefix".

       --protocols
              Lists what particular protocols the installed libcurl was  built
              to  support. At the time of writing, this list may include HTTP,
              HTTPS, FTP, FTPS, FILE, TELNET, LDAP, DICT. Do  not  assume  any
              particular  order.  The protocols will be listed using uppercase
              and are separated by newlines. There may be none, one,  or  sev-
              eral protocols in the list. (Added in 7.13.0)

       --static-libs
              Shows the complete set of libs and other linker options you will
              need in order to link your application with libcurl  statically.
              (Added in 7.17.1)

       --version
              Outputs version information about the installed libcurl.

       --vernum
              Outputs  version  information  about  the  installed libcurl, in
              numerical mode.  This outputs the version number,  in  hexadeci-
              mal,  with  8  bits  for each part; major, minor, patch. So that
              libcurl 7.7.4 would appear as 070704 and libcurl 12.13.14  would
              appear as 0c0d0e... Note that the initial zero might be omitted.
              (This option was broken in the 7.15.0 release.)

EXAMPLES
       What linker options do I need when I link with libcurl?

         $ curl-config --libs

       What compiler options do I need when I compile using libcurl functions?

         $ curl-config --cflags

       How do I know if libcurl was built with SSL support?

         $ curl-config --feature | grep SSL

       What's the installed libcurl version?

         $ curl-config --version

       How do I build a single file with a one-line command?

         $  `curl-config  --cc  --cflags`  -o  example  example.c `curl-config
       --libs`

SEE ALSO
       curl(1)



Curl 7.17.1                       25 Oct 2007                   curl-config(1)
