dappprof(1m)                     USER COMMANDS                    dappprof(1m)



NAME
       dappprof - profile user and lib function usage. Uses DTrace.

SYNOPSIS
       dappprof [-acehoTU] [-u lib] { -p PID | command }

DESCRIPTION
       dappprof prints details on user and library call times for processes as
       a summary style aggragation. By default the user fuctions  are  traced,
       options can be used to trace library activity. Output can include func-
       tion counts, elapsed times and on cpu times.

       The elapsed times are interesting, to help identify functions that take
       some  time  to  complete (during which the process may have slept). CPU
       time helps us identify syscalls that are consuming CPU cycles to run.

       Since this uses DTrace, only users with root privileges  can  run  this
       command.

OPTIONS
       -a     print all data

       -c     print function counts

       -e     print elapsed times, ns

       -o     print CPU times, ns

       -T     print totals

       -p PID examine this PID

       -u lib trace this library instead

       -U     trace all library and user functions


EXAMPLES
       run and examine the "df -h" command,
              # dappprof df -h


       print elapsed times, on-cpu times and counts for "df -h",
              # dappprof -ceo df -h

       print elapsed times for PID 1871,
              # dappprof -p 1871


       print all data for PID 1871,
              # dappprof -ap 1871


FIELDS
       CALL   Function call name

       ELAPSED
              Total elapsed time, nanoseconds

       CPU    Total on-cpu time, nanoseconds

       COUNT  Number of occurrences

DOCUMENTATION
       See  the  DTraceToolkit for further documentation under the Docs direc-
       tory. The DTraceToolkit docs may include full worked examples with ver-
       bose descriptions explaining the output.

EXIT
       dappprof will sample until Ctrl-C is hit.

AUTHOR
       Brendan Gregg [Sydney, Australia]

SEE ALSO
       dapptrace(1M), dtrace(1M), apptrace(1)




version 1.10                     May 14, 2005                     dappprof(1m)
