DBIPROF(1)            User Contributed Perl Documentation           DBIPROF(1)



NAME
       dbiprof - command-line client for DBI::ProfileData

SYNOPSIS
       See a report of the ten queries with the longest total runtime in the
       profile dump file prof1.out:

        dbiprof prof1.out

       See the top 10 most frequently run queries in the profile file dbi.prof
       (the default):

         dbiprof --sort count

       See the same report with 15 entries:

         dbiprof --sort count --number 15

DESCRIPTION
       This tool is a command-line client for the DBI::ProfileData.  It allows
       you to analyze the profile data file produced by DBI::ProfileDumper and
       produce various useful reports.

OPTIONS
       This program accepts the following options:

       --number N
           Produce this many items in the report.  Defaults to 10.  If set to
           "all" then all results are shown.

       --sort field
           Sort results by the given field. Sorting by multiple fields isn't
           currently supported (patches welcome).  The available sort fields
           are:

           total
               Sorts by total time run time across all runs.  This is the
               default sort.

           longest
               Sorts by the longest single run.

           count
               Sorts by total number of runs.

           first
               Sorts by the time taken in the first run.

           shortest
               Sorts by the shortest single run.

           key1
               Sorts by the value of the first element in the Path, which
               should be numeric.  You can also sort by "key2" and "key3".

       --reverse
           Reverses the selected sort.  For example, to see a report of the
           shortest overall time:

             dbiprof --sort total --reverse

       --match keyN=value
           Consider only items where the specified key matches the given
           value.  Keys are numbered from 1.  For example, let's say you used
           a DBI::Profile Path of:

             [ DBIprofile_Statement, DBIprofile_Methodname ]

           And called dbiprof as in:

             dbiprof --match key2=execute

           Your report would only show execute queries, leaving out prepares,
           fetches, etc.

           If the value given starts and ends with slashes ("/") then it will
           be treated as a regular expression.  For example, to only include
           SELECT queries where key1 is the statement:

             dbiprof --match key1=/^SELECT/

           By default the match expression is matched case-insensitively, but
           this can be changed with the --case-sensitive option.

       --exclude keyN=value
           Remove items for where the specified key matches the given value.
           For example, to exclude all prepare entries where key2 is the
           method name:

             dbiprof --exclude key2=prepare

           Like "--match", If the value given starts and ends with slashes
           ("/") then it will be treated as a regular expression.  For
           example, to exclude UPDATE queries where key1 is the statement:

             dbiprof --match key1=/^UPDATE/

           By default the exclude expression is matched case-insensitively,
           but this can be changed with the --case-sensitive option.

       --case-sensitive
           Using this option causes --match and --exclude to work case-
           sensitively.  Defaults to off.

       --delete
           Sets the "DeleteFiles" option to DBI::ProfileData which causes the
           files to be deleted after reading. See DBI::ProfileData for more
           details.

       --dumpnodes
           Print the list of nodes in the form of a perl data structure.  Use
           the "-sort" option if you want the list sorted.

       --version
           Print the dbiprof version number and exit.

AUTHOR
       Sam Tregar <sam@tregar.com>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
       Copyright (C) 2002 Sam Tregar

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the same terms as Perl 5 itself.

SEE ALSO
       DBI::ProfileDumper, DBI::Profile, DBI.



perl v5.16.3                      2015-07-31                        DBIPROF(1)
