
DF(1)                     BSD General Commands Manual                    DF(1)

NAME
     df -- display free disk space

SYNOPSIS
     df [-b | -h | -H | -k | -m | -g | -P] [-ailn] [-t] [-T type]
        [file | filesystem ...]

LEGACY SYNOPSIS
     df [-b | -h | -H | -k | -m | -P] [-ailn] [-t type] [-T type] [file |
     filesystem ...]

DESCRIPTION
     The df utility displays statistics about the amount of free disk space on
     the specified filesystem or on the filesystem of which file is a part.
     Values are displayed in 512-byte per block counts.  If neither a file or
     a filesystem operand is specified, statistics for all mounted filesystems
     are displayed (subject to the -t option below).

     The following options are available:

     -a      Show all mount points, including those that were mounted with the
             MNT_IGNORE flag.

     -b      Use (the default) 512-byte blocks.  This is only useful as a way
             to override an BLOCKSIZE specification from the environment.

     -g      Use 1073741824-byte (1-Gbyte) blocks rather than the default.
             Note that this overrides the BLOCKSIZE specification from the
             environment.

     -H      "Human-readable" output.  Use unit suffixes: Byte, Kilobyte,
             Megabyte, Gigabyte, Terabyte and Petabyte in order to reduce the
             number of digits to three or less using base 10 for sizes.

     -h      "Human-readable" output.  Use unit suffixes: Byte, Kilobyte,
             Megabyte, Gigabyte, Terabyte and Petabyte in order to reduce the
             number of digits to three or less using base 2 for sizes.

     -i      Include statistics on the number of free inodes. This option is
             now the default to conform to Version 3 of the Single UNIX
             Specification (``SUSv3'') Use -P to suppress this output.

     -k      Use 1024-byte (1-Kbyte) blocks, rather than the default.  Note
             that this overrides the BLOCKSIZE specification from the environ-
             ment.

     -l      Only display information about locally-mounted filesystems.

     -m      Use 1048576-byte (1-Mbyte) blocks rather than the default.  Note
             that this overrides the BLOCKSIZE specification from the environ-
             ment.

     -n      Print out the previously obtained statistics from the filesys-
             tems.  This option should be used if it is possible that one or
             more filesystems are in a state such that they will not be able
             to provide statistics without a long delay.  When this option is
             specified, df will not request new statistics from the filesys-
             tems, but will respond with the possibly stale statistics that
             were previously obtained.

     -P      Use (the default) 512-byte blocks.  This is only useful as a way
             to override an BLOCKSIZE specification from the environment.

     -T      Only print out statistics for filesystems of the specified types.
             More than one type may be specified in a comma separated list.
             The list of filesystem types can be prefixed with ``no'' to spec-
             ify the filesystem types for which action should not be taken.
             For example, the df command:

                   df -T nonfs,mfs

             lists all filesystems except those of type NFS and MFS.  The
             lsvfs(1) command can be used to find out the types of filesystems
             that are available on the system.

     -t      If used with no arguments, this option is a no-op (Mac OS X
             already prints the total allocated-space figures).  If used with
             an argument, it acts like -T, but this usage is deprecated and
             should not be relied upon.

ENVIRONMENT
     BLOCKSIZE  If the environment variable BLOCKSIZE is set, the block counts
                will be displayed in units of that size block.

BUGS
     The -n and -t flags are ignored if a file or filesystem is specified.

LEGACY DESCRIPTION
     The "capacity" percentage is normally rounded up to the next higher inte-
     ger.  In legacy mode, it is rounded down to the next lower integer.

     When the -P option and the -k option are used together, sizes are
     reported in 1024-blocks.  In legacy mode, when the -P option and -k
     option are used together, the last option specified dictates the reported
     block size.

     The -t option is normally a no-op (Mac OS X already prints the total
     allocated-space figures).  In legacy mode, it is equivalent to -T.

     For more information about legacy mode, see compat(5).

SEE ALSO
     lsvfs(1), quota(1), fstatfs(2), getfsstat(2), statfs(2), getmntinfo(3),
     compat(5), fstab(5), mount(8), quot(8)

HISTORY
     A df command appeared in Version 1 AT&T UNIX.

BSD                               May 8, 1995                              BSD
