

DRUTIL(1)                 BSD General Commands Manual                DRUTIL(1)

NAME
     drutil -- interact with CD/DVD burners

SYNOPSIS
     drutil verb [options]

DESCRIPTION
     drutil uses the DiscRecording framework to interact with attached burning
     devices.  Common verbs include burn, erase, eject, help, info, list,
     status, and tray.

     The rest of the verbs are: bulkerase, cdtext, discinfo, dumpiso, dumpudf,
     filename, getconfig, poll, size, subchannel, trackinfo, and version.

VERBS
     Each verb is listed with its description and individual arguments.  Drive
     selection arguments must appear before individual arguments.  Drive
     selection and argument descriptions can be found after the verb descrip-
     tions in the Drive Selection Criteria section.

     -drive drive(s)
                Lets you specify a drive or drives, per the output of list,
                for those verbs that can operate on one or more drives.  See
                the Drive Selection Criterion section for more info.

     help verb
                Display the usage information for the specified verb.

     atip
                Displays the Absolute Time in Pre-Groove (ATIP) for inserted
                CD-R/RW media.

     bulkerase type
                Starts bulk erase mode, in which the drive will continually
                erase inserted -RW media, eject it, and prompt for another
                disc until terminated.

                Types of erase:
                quick    Performs a quick erase, doing the minimal amount of
                         work to make the disc appear blank. This operation
                         typically takes only a minute or two.

                full     Performs a complete erase, erasing every block on the
                         disk. This operation is slow (on the order of 30 min-
                         utes) to complete.

     burn options path
                Burns a valid directory or image file to disc. The default is
                to burn the specified directory to a new filesystem. The
                -audio option creates an audio CD (redbook) in which any valid
                QuickTime audio file present in the path is converted to a
                track (in alphabetical order). If a file is specified (valid
                image files only: .dmg, .iso, .cue/bin, and .toc) the contents
                of the image file are burned. Pre-burn and post-burn options,
                and filesystem exclusions can be specificed for enhanced func-
                tionality. Last option takes precedence. Invalid commands are
                ignored.

                path     A valid path to a directory or file.

                options  Specify an arbitrary valid burn option(s): -test,
                         -appendable, -erase, -mount, -noverify, -nohfsplus,
                         -noiso9660, -nojoliet, -noudf, -nofs, -audio, -speed,
                         -pregap.  Or specify a default burn option: -notest,
                         -noappendable, -noerase, -allfs, -hfsplus, -iso9660,
                         -joliet, -udf, -data, -eject, -verify.

     cdtext
                Reads and displays any CD-Text information reported by the
                drive. The drive must contain an audio CD, and be capable of
                reading CD-Text.

     discinfo [-xml]
                Displays detailed information about present media.

                From the MMC command of the same name.

     dumpiso device block [format]
                Tool to inspect and interpret ISO-9660 and Joliet structures
                on the media.

                device   Disk node, e.g. /dev/disk1, /dev/disk1s1,
                         /dev/rdisk1.

                block    Block number to dump (in decimal or 0x hex notation).
                         Blocks are assumed to be 2048-byte blocks.

                format   How to interpret the block. If format is not speci-
                         fied, dumpiso will attempt to guess.  If present,
                         this argument should be one of the following: None,
                         Boot, BootCat, PVD, SVD, VPD, VDST, MPath, LPath,
                         Dir, HFSPlusVH.

     dumpudf device block
                Tool to inspect and interpret UDF structures on the media.

                device   Disk node, e.g. /dev/disk1, /dev/disk1s1,
                         /dev/rdisk1.

                block    Block number to dump (in decimal or 0x hex notation).
                         Blocks are assumed to be 2048-byte blocks.

     eject
                Synonym for drutil tray eject.

     erase type
                Erases -RW media in the drive(s) and ejects it.

                Types of erase:
                quick    Performs a quick erase, doing the minimal amount of
                         work to make the disc appear blank. This operation
                         typically takes only a minute or two.

                full     Performs a complete erase, erasing every block on the
                         disk. This operation is slow (on the order of 30 min-
                         utes) to complete.

     filename name
                Shows how the specified filename will be modified to comply
                with the naming rules of the filesystems that DiscRecording
                generates.

     getconfig type
                Displays device feature and profile list.

                Types of config information:
                current  Displays current features and profiles for a drive.

                supported Displays all supported features and profiles for a
                         drive.

     info [-xml]
                Displays various pieces of information for each drive, includ-
                ing how it's connected to the computer and a summary of capa-
                bilities.

     list [-xml]
                Lists all burning devices connected to the machine.

     poll
                Displays device and media notifications until terminated.

     size options path
                Estimates the size of a valid directory or image file (in
                blocks). The default is to estimate the size of the specified
                path as a hybrid filesystem. The -audio option calculates the
                contents of the directory as an audio CD (redbook) (for appli-
                cable files). If a file is specified (valid image files only:
                .dmg, .iso, .cue/bin, and .toc) the contents of the image file
                will be calculated. Filesystem exclusions can be specificed
                for enhanced functionality. Calculated size will be compared
                against blank media that is found unless the -nodrive argument
                is specified. Last option takes precedence. Invalid commands
                are ignored.

                path     A valid path to a directory or file.

                options  Specify an arbitrary valid burn option(s): -nodrive,
                         -nohfsplus, -noiso9660, -nojoliet, -noudf, -nofs,
                         -audio, -pregap.  Or specify a default burn option:
                         -allfs, -hfsplus, -iso9660, -joliet, -udf, -data.

     status [-xml]
                Displays detailed media-specific information.

     subchannel
                Displays information from the subchannels on CD media. This
                prints the MCN (media catalog number) for the disc, and the
                ISRC (international standard recording code) for all tracks.
                This command only works when CD media is present.

                From the MMC command of the same name.

     toc
                Displays table of contents (TOC) of inserted media.

     trackinfo [-xml]
                Displays detailed information about all tracks present on the
                media.

                From the MMC command of the same name.

     tray command
                Performs a tray/media related command. Note that some drives
                do not have trays, and some have trays but may lack motorized
                eject or inject capability.

                Tray commands:
                open     Opens a drive's tray, if no media is present and the
                         drive has a tray capable of motorized eject.

                close    Closes a drive's tray, if the drive has a tray capa-
                         ble of motorized inject.

                eject    Ejects media from the drive, if the drive has a tray
                         capable of motorized eject. If no media is present,
                         this is equivalent to open.  If media is present and
                         can be unmounted, it will be unmounted and then
                         ejected.  If media is present but cannot be
                         unmounted, the eject will fail.

     version
                Displays operating system and DiscRecording framework version
                numbers.

OPTIONS
     -xml
                When specified (valid options only: discinfo, info, list,
                status, and trackinfo) the output for the specified verb will
                be shown in xml format.

DRIVE SELECTION CRITERIA
     Some functions of drutil operate on a specific drive. Since any number of
     drives may be available, and they may come and go at any time, the device
     selection arguments provide a method for selecting among them.

     The candidate list starts out as a list of all attached drives. One or
     more arguments of the form -drive drive(s) may be specified. Each argu-
     ment has the effect of narrowing the candidate list, depending on what
     drive(s) is. It may be:

         o        A positive decimal number, assumed to be a 1-based index
                  into the candidate list. The candidate list is trimmed to
                  just that device.

         o        One of the following keywords: internal, external, usb,
                  firewire, atapi, scsi.  The candidate list is trimmed to
                  devices which match the specified location / bus. Case is
                  ignored in this comparison.

         o        Any other string, assumed to be a vendor/product name. The
                  candidate list is trimmed to devices whose vendor or product
                  strings exactly match the argument. Case (but not white-
                  space) is ignored in this comparison.

     Multiple -drive arguments may be specified; each argument narrows the
     candidate list further. After all the -drive arguments have been pro-
     cessed, the candidate list is considered. If it contains exactly one
     item, that drive is used. If it contains zero items, drutil prints an
     error message and exits. If it contains more than one item, the selected
     function is executed on all drives remaining in the list.

EXAMPLES
     Simple verbs with no drive commands

           drutil help status
             Displays help for the verb "status".
           drutil list
             Displays a list of attached devices.
           drutil info
               Displays miscellaneous information for all attached devices.
           drutil status
               Displays media-specific information for all attached devices.
           drutil -drive internal burn -noverify -eject -speed 24 ~/Documents
             Burns the Documents directory to the internal drive without
             verifying, then ejects the disc.
           drutil -drive internal info -xml > driveInfo.xml
             Creates a XML file containing info about internal drives.

     Examples of drive selection

           drutil -drive 1 tray close
             Closes the tray of the first burning device seen, if possible.
           drutil -drive external info
             Lists drive specific information for all externally
             connected burning devices.
           drutil -drive firewire status
             Lists media specific information for media present in
             attached firewire burning devices.
           drutil -drive VENDOR tray open
             Opens the tray of all burning devices whose vendor id is
             VENDOR, if possible.
           drutil -drive 'CD-RW CDW827ES' getconfig supported
             Lists supported features and profiles for attached devices
             whose product id is 'CD-RW CDW827ES'.

HISTORY
     drutil first appeared in MacOS X 10.3.

SEE ALSO
     diskutil(1), hdiutil(1), /usr/sbin/disktool (run with no args for usage).

Mac OS X                         May 18, 2004                         Mac OS X
