
dscacheutil(1)            BSD General Commands Manual           dscacheutil(1)

NAME
     dscacheutil -- gather information, statistics and initiate queries to the
     Directory Service cache.

SYNOPSIS
     dscacheutil -h
     dscacheutil -q category [-a key value]
     dscacheutil -cachedump [-buckets] [-entries [category]]
     dscacheutil -configuration
     dscacheutil -flushcache
     dscacheutil -statistics

DESCRIPTION
     dscacheutil does various operations against the Directory Service cache
     including gathering statistics, initiating lookups, inspection, cache
     flush, etc.  This tool replaces most of the functionality of the lookupd
     tool previously available in the OS.

FLAGS
     A list of flags and their descriptions:

     -h      Lists the options for calling dscacheutil

     -q category
             Initiate a query using standard calls.  These calls will either
             return results from the cache or go fetch live data and place
             them in the cache.  By default if no specific query is requested
             via -a then all results within that category will be returned.

     -a key value
             Optional flag to -q for a specific key with a value.

     -cachedump
             Dumps an overview of the cache by default.  Additional flags will
             provide more detailed information.

     -buckets
             Used in conjunction with -cachedump to also print hash bucket
             usage of the current cache.

     -entries [category]
             Used in conjunction with -cachedump to dump detailed information
             about cache entries.  An optional category can be supplied to
             only see types of interest.  Dumping 'host' entries can only be
             done by administrative users.

     -configuration
             Prints current configuration information, such as the search pol-
             icy from Directory Service and cache parameters.

     -flushcache
             Flushes the entire cache.  This should only be used in extreme
             cases.  Validation information is used within the cache along
             with other techniques to ensure the OS has valid information
             available to it.

     -statistics
             Prints statistics from the cache including an overview and
             detailed call statistics.  Some calls are not cached but are
             derived from other calls internally.  Cache hits and cache misses
             may not always be equal to external calls.  For example getad-
             drinfo is actually a combination of gethostbyname with other
             calls internally to the cache to maximize cache hit rate.

     Available categories and associated keys:

     group       name or gid

     host        name or ip_address (used for both IPv6 and IPv4)

     mount       name

     protocol    name or number

     rpc         name or number

     service     name or port

     user        name or uid

EXAMPLES
     Lookup a user:
                    % dscacheutil -q user -a name jdoe
                    name: jdoe
                    password: ********
                    uid: 501
                    gid: 501
                    dir: /Users/jdoe
                    shell: /bin/csh
                    gecos: John Doe

     Lookup all users:
                    % dscacheutil -q user

     Dump cache overview:
                    % dscacheutil -cachedump

     Dump cache details with user entries:
                    % dscacheutil -cachedump -entries user

SEE ALSO
     DirectoryService(8), dsmemberutil(1)

Darwin                           Jan 14, 2007                           Darwin
