
DU(1)                     BSD General Commands Manual                    DU(1)

NAME
     du -- display disk usage statistics

SYNOPSIS
     du [-H | -L | -P] [-a | -s | -d depth] [-c] [-h | -k | -m | -g] [-x]
        [-I mask] [file ...]

DESCRIPTION
     The du utility displays the file system block usage for each file argu-
     ment and for each directory in the file hierarchy rooted in each direc-
     tory argument.  If no file is specified, the block usage of the hierarchy
     rooted in the current directory is displayed.

     The options are as follows:

     -a      Display an entry for each file in a file hierarchy.

     -c      Display a grand total.

     -d depth
             Display an entry for all files and directories depth directories
             deep.

     -H      Symbolic links on the command line are followed, symbolic links
             in file hierarchies are not followed.

     -h      "Human-readable" output.  Use unit suffixes: Byte, Kilobyte,
             Megabyte, Gigabyte, Terabyte and Petabyte.

     -I mask
             Ignore files and directories matching the specified mask.

     -g      Display block counts in 1073741824-byte (1-Gbyte) blocks.

     -k      Display block counts in 1024-byte (1-Kbyte) blocks.

     -L      Symbolic links on the command line and in file hierarchies are
             followed.

     -m      Display block counts in 1048576-byte (1-Mbyte) blocks.

     -P      No symbolic links are followed.  This is the default.

     -r      Generate messages about directories that cannot be read, files
             that cannot be opened, and so on.  This is the default case.
             This option exists solely for conformance with X/Open Portability
             Guide Issue 4 (``XPG4'').

     -s      Display an entry for each specified file.  (Equivalent to -d 0)

     -x      File system mount points are not traversed.

     The du utility counts the storage used by symbolic links and not the
     files they reference unless the -H or -L option is specified.  If either
     the -H or -L options are specified, storage used by any symbolic links
     which are followed is not counted or displayed.  If more than one of the
     -H, -L, and -P options is specified, the last one given is used.

     Files having multiple hard links are counted (and displayed) a single
     time per du execution.  Directories having multiple hard links (typically
     Time Machine backups) are counted a single time per du execution.

ENVIRONMENT
     BLOCKSIZE  If the environment variable BLOCKSIZE is set, and the -k
                option is not specified, the block counts will be displayed in
                units of that size block.  If BLOCKSIZE is not set, and the -k
                option is not specified, the block counts will be displayed in
                512-byte blocks.

LEGACY DESCRIPTION
     In legacy mode, only one of the -H, -L, or -P options may be specified.

     The command will detect and report a SYMLOOP error (loop involving sym-
     bolic links).  In legacy mode, this is not the case.

     For more information about legacy mode, see compat(5).

SEE ALSO
     df(1), fts(3), compat(5), symlink(7), quot(8)

HISTORY
     A du command appeared in Version 1 AT&T UNIX.

BSD                              June 2, 2004                              BSD
