EQN2GRAPH(1)                                                      EQN2GRAPH(1)



NAME
       eqn2graph - convert an EQN equation into a cropped image

SYNOPSIS
       eqn2graph [ -unsafe ] [ -format fmt ]

DESCRIPTION
       Reads  an  EQN equation (one line) as input; produces an image file (by
       default in Portable Network Graphics format) suitable for  the  Web  as
       output.

       Your input EQN code should not have the .EQ/.EN preamble that that nor-
       mally precedes it within groff(1) macros; nor do you need to have  dol-
       lar-sign or other delimiters around the equation.

       The output image will be a black-on-white graphic clipped to the small-
       est possible bounding box that contains all the black pixels.  By spec-
       ifying  command-line options to be passed to convert(1) you can give it
       a border, set the background transparent, set the  image's  pixel  den-
       sity, or perform other useful transformations.

       This program uses eqn(1), groff(1), and the ImageMagick convert(1) pro-
       gram.  These programs must be installed on your system  and  accessible
       on your $PATH for eqn2graph to work.

OPTIONS
       -unsafe
              Run  groff(1)  in the `unsafe' mode enabling the PIC macro sh to
              execute arbitrary commands.  The default is to forbid this.

       -format fmt
              Specify an output format; the default is PNG  (Portable  Network
              Graphics).  Any format that convert(1) can emit is supported.

       Command-line switches and arguments not listed above are passed to con-
       vert(1).

FILES
       /usr/share/groff/1.19.2/tmac/eqnrc
              The eqn(1) initialization file.

ENVIRONMENT
       GROFF_TMPDIR
              The directory in which temporary files will be created.  If this
              is  not set eqn2graph searches the environment variables TMPDIR,
              TMP, and TEMP (in that order).  Otherwise, temporary files  will
              be created in /tmp.

SEE ALSO
       pic2graph(1), grap2graph(1), eqn(1), groff(1), gs(1), convert(1).

AUTHOR
       Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>.



Groff Version 1.19.2            27 October 2003                   EQN2GRAPH(1)
