extcheck(1)                                                        extcheck(1)



NAME
       extcheck - jar conflict detection utility

SYNOPSIS
       extcheck [ -verbose ] [ -Joption ] targetfile.jar

DESCRIPTION
       The  extcheck utility checks a specified jar file for title and version
       conflicts with any extensions installed in the  JDK  software.   Before
       installing an extension, you can use this utility to see if the same or
       a more recent version of the extension is already installed.

       The extcheck utility compares the  Specification-title  and  Specifica-
       tion-version headers in the manifest of targetfile.jar file against the
       corresponding headers in all  Jar  files  currently  installed  in  the
       extension  directory.   (The  extension  directory  is  jre/lib/ext  by
       default.) The extcheck utility compares version numbers in the same way
       as the method java.lang.Package.isCompatibleWith.

       If no conflict is detected, the return code is 0.

       If  the  manifest  of  any jar file in the extensions directory has the
       same Specification-title and the same or a newer  Specification-version
       number,  a  non-zero  error  code is returned. A non-zero error code is
       also returned if targetfile.jar does not have  the  Specification-title
       or Specification-version attributes in its manifest.

OPTIONS
       The following options are supported:

       -verbose       Lists  jar  files in the extension directory as they are
                      checked.  Additionally, manifest attributes of the  tar-
                      get  jar  file  and  any  conflicting jar files are also
                      reported.

       -Joption       Pass option to the Java virtual machine, where option is
                      one  of  the  options  described on the man page for the
                      java application launcher, java(1).   For  example,  -J-
                      Xms48m sets the startup memory to 48 megabytes.

SEE ALSO
       jar(1)



                                 13 June 2000                      extcheck(1)
