FAX(1)                                                                  FAX(1)



NAME
       fax - make, send, receive, view or print a fax

SYNOPSIS
       fax help

       fax make [-l] file

       fax send [-l] [-v] { -m | number } filename...

       fax [ receive [-v] [ filename-prefix ] ]

       fax { print | view | rm } filename...

       fax { queue | status [t] |  start | stop }

       fax answer


OPTIONS
       -l       use low (96 line per inch) resolution

       -v       display verbose messages for debugging

       -m       the phone call has already been dialed manually



       The  commands make, send, receive, view and queue may be abbreviated to
       their first characters (e.g. ``fax q'').

       Assignments of the form VARIABLE=value may appear  before  the  command
       name  to  temporarily  change  the  values of most fax script variables
       (e.g. ``fax PAGE=A4 print letter.001'')



DESCRIPTION
       fax provides a simple user interface to the efax(1)  and  efix(1)  pro-
       grams.   It  allows  you  to send text or Postscript files as faxes and
       receive, print or preview received faxes.  The fax help command  prints
       a summary of the possible commands.

       To  send  a  fax, the original files need to be converted from ASCII or
       Postscript into a particular bit-map format (TIFF with Group  3  encod-
       ing).   This  can  be done automatically by the fax send command or you
       can use the fax make command to do the conversion  before  sending  the
       fax.   The  conversion will create one file per page.  These files will
       have the name of the original file with the page  number  as  an  addi-
       tional  suffix.   For  example, running fax make doc.ps on the two-page
       postscript  file  doc.ps  would  generate  the  files  doc.ps.001   and
       doc.ps.002.

       When  sending  a  fax with the fax send command you may dial the number
       manually and use the -m option or you may give the phone number on  the
       command  line.  The names of the files to be sent are given on the com-
       mand line, usually by using wildcards.  For example, to send  a  multi-
       page fax consisting of the files doc.ps.001, doc.ps.002, and so on, you
       could use the command fax send 555-1212 doc.ps.0* (if you  had  already
       run  the  fax make command) or simply fax send 555-1212 doc.ps.  If the
       number is busy the script will wait and try again.

       Use the fax receive command to answer the phone and receive a fax.   If
       a  file name is specified the received fax will be stored in files with
       the given file name plus an extension equal to the page number.  If  no
       options  are  given,  the received fax will be stored in files having a
       name given by the date and time and an extension equal to the page num-
       ber.   For  example,  a  fax received beginning on July 4 at 3:05:20 pm
       will generate files 0704150520.001, 0704150520.002, and so on.

       The fax print, fax view, and fax rm commands are used to print, preview
       or  remove received fax files.  As with the send command the file names
       are usually given using wildcards.

       If efax has been installed for automatic fax reception you can use  the
       fax  queue  command to check for files in the incoming spool directory.
       The fax script can also be configured to print received faxes or e-mail
       them  as  MIME attachments with type image/tiff-f.  For convenience the
       fax print, view and rm commands will first check for the named files in
       this  spool  directory.  The fax status command shows the status of the
       automatic receive process once, or every t seconds.   Privileged  users
       can use the fax stop and fax start commands to stop and restart the fax
       reception daemon.

       The fax answer command is used for unattended reception of  faxes.   It
       is  normally placed in a launchd.plist(5) file and is run automatically
       by launchd(8).  The -v option displays verbose messages.

       Other features of the fax script are documented within the script:


       -  a directory that lets you specify recipients by name instead of num-
          ber


       -  the  fax  new  command  to create a simple cover page and start up a
          text editor


       -  the fax makefont command converts a Postscript font to a  bit-mapped
          font for use in headers or text


RESOLUTION
       Faxes can be created at low (98 lines per inch) or high (196 lpi) reso-
       lution.  Almost all fax machines will operate at either resolution.  By
       default  files  are  created  at  high  resolution  but you can use the
       optional -l argument to create files at low resolution.


SESSION LOGS
       The modem commands and responses together with status  and  error  mes-
       sages are written to file.  If the fax is successfully sent or received
       the log file is removed.  Otherwise a message is  printed  showing  the
       log file name.  Please send a copy of this file when reporting problems
       with efax.


FILES
       The fax script will `source' the optional shell  scripts  /etc/efax.rc,
       ~/.efaxrc  and/or  ./.efaxrc  before processing command-line arguments.
       These files can be used to set script variables to custom values for  a
       particular system, user and/or directory.

       The  following  files  are  created  in the FAXDIR spool directory when
       automatic fax reception is enabled (see the fax  script).   DEV  repre-
       sents  the  name  of  the  fax modem device file in /dev (e.g. cua1 for
       /dev/cua1).


       DEV.n     the log file created by the fax answer daemon with process id
                 n

       DEV.log   contains collected log files for device DEV.  Log files show-
                 ing a termination status of 1 (device busy) or 4 (no response
                 from modem) are not added to this file.

       DEV.stop  created  by  the  fax  stop command to prevent the fax daemon
                 from starting up.


AUTHOR
       Fax was written by Ed Casas.  Please send comments or  bug  reports  to
       edc@cce.com.  Please describe the type of modem used and include a copy
       of the log file.


COPYRIGHT
       Fax is copyright 1993 -- 1999 by Ed Casas.  It may be used, copied  and
       modified under the terms of the GNU Public License.


DISCLAIMER
       Although  fax  has been tested, it may have errors that will prevent it
       from working correctly on your system.  Some of these errors may  cause
       serious  problems including loss of data and interruptions to telephone
       service.


SEE ALSO
       efax(1), efix(1), launchd(8).


BUGS
       See efax(1).



3rd Berkeley Distribution          May 1996                             FAX(1)
