GRAP2GRAPH(1)                                                    GRAP2GRAPH(1)



NAME
       grap2graph - convert a grap diagram into a cropped bitmap image

SYNOPSIS
       grap2graph [ -unsafe ] [ -resolution M|MxN ] [ -format fmt ]

DESCRIPTION
       Reads  a  grap  program as input; produces an image file (by default in
       Portable Network Graphics format) suitable for the Web as output.   For
       a description of the grap language, see grap(1).

       Your  graph  specification  should  not be wrapped with the .G1 and .G2
       macros that normally guard it within groff(1) macros.

       The output image will be a black-on-white graphic clipped to the small-
       est possible bounding box that contains all the black pixels.  By spec-
       ifying command-line options to be passed to convert(1) you can give  it
       a  border,  set  the background transparent, set the image's pixel den-
       sity, or perform other useful transformations.

       This program uses grap(1), pic(1), groff(1), and the  ImageMagick  con-
       vert(1)  program.   These programs must be installed on your system and
       accessible on your $PATH for grap2graph to work.

OPTIONS
       -unsafe
              Run pic(1) and groff(1) in the `unsafe' mode  enabling  the  PIC
              macro  sh to execute arbitrary commands.  The default is to for-
              bid this.

       -format fmt
              Specify an output format; the default is PNG  (Portable  Network
              Graphics).  Any format that convert(1) can emit is supported.

       Command-line switches and arguments not listed above are passed to con-
       vert(1).

ENVIRONMENT
       GROFF_TMPDIR
              The directory in which temporary files will be created.  If this
              is not set grap2graph searches the environment variables TMPDIR,
              TMP, and TEMP (in that order).  Otherwise, temporary files  will
              be created in /tmp.

SEE ALSO
       pic2graph(1), eqn2graph(1), pic(1), groff(1), gs(1), convert(1).

AUTHOR
       Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>



Groff Version 1.19.2            27 October 2003                  GRAP2GRAPH(1)
