
hiutil(1)                 BSD General Commands Manual                hiutil(1)

NAME
     hiutil -- utility for creating and examining Help Viewer indices

SYNOPSIS
     hiutil -Cf file [-1agv] [-m NUM] [-s LANG | PATH] [-r URL] [-t EXT] dir
     hiutil [-ADEFMRS] -f file

DESCRIPTION
     hiutil is for creating and examining .helpindex files. These files were
     historically created by Help Indexer.app, which now calls this tool.

     There are several different (and mutually-exclusive) modes:

     -C, --create
              Create an index file at the location you specify. You must pro-
              vide both a directory of HTML files to index and path to an out-
              put file, which will be overwritten if it exists.

     -A, --list-anchors
              List the index's anchors separated by newlines.

     -D, --list-anchor-dictionary
              List the index's anchor dictionary in XML. This includes a list
              of which files contain each anchor.

     -E, --list-index-versions
              List the index's version dictionary in XML. It describes the
              system environment on which the index was created.

     -F, --list-files
              List all the files included in the index, separated by newlines.
              You can use the -v option with this mode to get titles and
              descriptions as well.

     -H, --help
              Prints out usage data.

     -M, --list-min-term-length
              List the index's minimum term length.

     -R, --list-remote-url
              List the index's remote URL. (This is only relevant for old-
              style indexes which include one.)

     -S, --list-stopwords
              List the index's stopwords separated by newlines.

     -V, --version
              Prints out the version of the tool.

GENERAL OPTIONS
     These can be used with any mode.

     -f, --file
              P    ass in the path to  a file, either one to be created or one
              to be examined.

     -v, --verbose
              Verbose output. Errors are always shown, but passing this argu-
              ment once will print out warnings too. Twice will print out
              errors, warnings and progress notes. This can be a lot of data!

CREATE OPTIONS
     These can only be used with the create mode.

     -1       Index one file at a time. The default is to use a queue to index
              several files in parallel. In combination with -vvv, this option
              can be useful in determining which file an error message is
              from.

     -a, --anchors
              Index anchors. The default is not to. Without this flag, there
              will be no anchor dictionary in the index.

     -e, --exclude=PATTERN
              Exclude files which match this pattern. Uses NSPredicate's
              MATCHES comparison method on the file's path relative to the
              directory being indexed. This option can be passed as many times
              as necessary, once per pattern. Exclusions take precedence over
              files included with -i.

     -g, --generate-summaries
              Generate summary text. This can be slow, but is useful if you
              don't have DESCRIPTION meta tags on some pages.

     -i, --include=PATTERN
              Include files which match this pattern. Uses NSPredicate's
              MATCHES comparison method on the file's path relative to the
              directory being indexed. The default patterns to index are
              ".htm" and ".html". If these defaults are undesirable, you may
              use -e above to exclude them. This option can be passed as many
              times as necessary, once per pattern.

     -m, --min-term-length=NUM
              Minimum term length. Can be 1, 2 or 3. This is the number of
              consecutive tokens (typically a character) required for a term
              not to be ignored by the indexer. Recommended values are 3 for
              English and 1 for Chinese and other ideographic languages.

     -s, --stopwords=LANG|PATH
              Use stopwords. If you have your own stopwords .plist, provide
              that path. Otherwise, pass the two-character language code:

                     en   English
                     es   Spanish
                     de   German
                     fr   French
                     hu   Hungarian
                     it   Italian
                     sv   Swedish

     -r, --remote-url=URL
              Include a remote URL with the index. This is only useful in Type
              1 or Type 2 help books, because the URL is in the help bundle's
              Info.plist for Type 3 books. The URL should be fully qualified,
              for example:

     -l, --locale=LANG
              Index for a specific locale. Instead of having to boot into the
              locale to index, pass the language code or locale identifier
              here to index for that language. Example locale identifiers:

                     en_US
                          US English
                     es_ES
                          Spanish
                     de   German
                     fr   French
                     hu   Hungarian
                     ru_RU
                          Russian

                    https://www.mycompany.com/help_v1/

FILES
     /usr/share/hiutil/Stopwords.plist
                                       List of default stopwords in different
                                       languages

EXAMPLES
     Here's what you'll mostly use this tool for, creating a help index:

           hiutil -Caf /tmp/myhelp.helpindex myHelpDirectory

     And if you then want to make sure that worked as expected:

           hiutil -Af /tmp/myhelp.helpindex

     Here's how to index .xml files as well, while ignoring everything in the
     idx directory in the root of your help folder:

           hiutil -Caf /tmp/help.helpindex -i ".*.xml$" -e "idx/.*" myhelpdir

NOTES
     hiutil requires Mac OS X 10.6 or greater.

Darwin                         February 14, 2016                        Darwin
