HPFTODIT(1)                                                        HPFTODIT(1)



NAME
       hpftodit - create font description files for use with groff -Tlj4

SYNOPSIS
       hpftodit [ -adqsv ] [ -in ] tfm_file map_file font

       It is possible to have whitespace between the -i option and its parame-
       ter.

DESCRIPTION
       hpftodit creates a font file for  use  with  a  Hewlett-Packard  Laser-
       Jet 4-series (or newer) printer with groff -Tlj4, using data from an HP
       tagged font metric (TFM) file.  tfm_file is the name of  the  TFM  file
       for  the  font;  Intellifont  and TrueType TFM files are supported, but
       symbol set TFM files are not.  map_file is  a  file  giving  the  groff
       names  for  characters  in  the  font;  this  file  should consist of a
       sequence of lines of the form:

              m u c1 c2 ... [ # comment ]

       where m is a decimal integer giving the MSL number of the character,  u
       is a hexadecimal integer giving the Unicode value of the character, and
       c1, c2, ...  are the groff names of the character.  The values  can  be
       separated  by any whitespace; the Unicode value must use uppercase dig-
       its A-F, and must be without a leading `0x',  `u',  or  `U+'.   Unicode
       values  corresponding to composite glyphs are decomposed; e.g., `u00C0'
       becomes `u0041_0300'.  The name for a glyph without a groff name may be
       given  as  uXXXX  if the glyph corresponds to a Unicode value, or as an
       unnamed glyph `---'.  If the given Unicode value is in the Private  Use
       Area (0xE000-0xF8FF), the glyph is included as an unnamed glyph.  Refer
       to groff_diff(1) for additional information about  unnamed  glyphs  and
       how to access them.

       Blank  lines and lines beginning with `#' are ignored.  A `#' following
       one or more groff names begins a comment.  Because `#' is a valid groff
       name,  it  must  appear  first in a list of groff names if a comment is
       included, e.g.,

              3   0023   #   # number sign

       or

              3   0023   # sh   # number sign

       rather than

              3   0023   sh #   # number sign

       which will treat the first `#' as the beginning of the comment.

       font is the name of the groff font file.  The groff font file is  writ-
       ten  to font; if font is specified as `-', the output is written to the
       standard output.

       The -s option should be given if the font is special (a font is special
       if troff should search it whenever a character is not found in the cur-
       rent font).  If the font is special, it should be listed in  the  fonts
       command  in  the  DESC  file; if it is not special, there is no need to
       list it, since troff can automatically mount it when it's first used.

       If the -i option is  used,  hpftodit  automatically  will  generate  an
       italic  correction, a left italic correction and a subscript correction
       for each character (the significance of these parameters  is  explained
       in groff_font(5)).

OPTIONS
       -a     Include  characters in the TFM file that are not included in the
              map file.  A glyph with corresponding Unicode value is given the
              name  uXXXX;  a  glyph without a Unicode value is included as an
              unnamed glyph `---'.  A glyph with a Unicode value in  the  Pri-
              vate  Use  Area  (0xE000-0xF8FF)  also is included as an unnamed
              glyph.

              This option provides a simple means of adding Unicode-named  and
              unnamed glyphs to a font without including them in the map file,
              but it affords little control over which glyphs are placed in  a
              regular  font and which are placed in a special font.  The pres-
              ence or absence of the -s option has some effect on which glyphs
              are included: without the -s option, only the "text" symbol sets
              are searched for matching glyphs; with the -s option,  only  the
              "mathematical" symbol sets are searched.  Nonetheless, restrict-
              ing the symbol sets searched isn't very  selective--many  glyphs
              are  placed in both regular and special fonts.  Normally, the -a
              option should be used only as a last resort.

       -d     Dump information about the TFM file to the standard output; this
              option  can  be  useful for ensuring that a TFM file is a proper
              match for a font, and that the contents  of  the  TFM  file  are
              suitable.   The information includes the values of important TFM
              tags, and a listing (by MSL number for Intellifont TFM files  or
              by  Unicode value for TrueType TFM files) of the glyphs included
              in the TFM file.  The unit of measure `DU' for some  tags  indi-
              cates  design  units;  there  are  8782  design units per em for
              Intellifont fonts, and 2048 design units  per  em  for  TrueType
              fonts.   Note  that  the accessibility of a glyph depends on its
              inclusion in a symbol set; some TFM files list many  glyphs  but
              only a few symbol sets.

              The  glyph listing includes the glyph index within the TFM file,
              the MSL or Unicode value, and the symbol set and character  code
              that  will  be  used  to print the glyph.  If map_file is given,
              groff names are given for matching glyphs.  If  only  the  glyph
              index  and  MSL  or  Unicode value are given, the glyph does not
              appear in any supported symbol set and cannot be printed.

              With the -d option, map_file is optional, and font is ignored if
              given.

       -q     Suppress warnings about characters in the map file that were not
              found in the TFM file.  Warnings never  are  given  for  unnamed
              glyphs  or by glyphs named by their Unicode values.  This option
              is useful when sending the output of hpftodit  to  the  standard
              output.

       -v     Print the hpftodit version number.

       -s     The  font  is  special.  This option adds the special command to
              the font file, and affects the order in which HP symbol sets are
              searched for each glyph.  Without the -s option, the "text" sets
              are searched before the "mathematical" symbol sets.  With the -s
              option, the search order is reversed.

       -in    Generate  an  italic  correction  for each character so that the
              character's width plus  the  character's  italic  correction  is
              equal  to  n  thousandths  of an em plus the amount by which the
              right edge of the character's bounding is to the  right  of  the
              character's  origin.   If this would result in a negative italic
              correction, use a zero italic correction instead.

              Also generate a subscript correction equal to the product of the
              tangent of the slant of the font and four fifths of the x-height
              of the font.  If this would result  in  a  subscript  correction
              greater  than  the italic correction, use a subscript correction
              equal to the italic correction instead.

              Also generate a left italic correction for each character  equal
              to n thousandths of an em plus the amount by which the left edge
              of the character's bounding box is to the left  of  the  charac-
              ter's origin.  The left italic correction may be negative.

              This  option  normally  is  needed  only  with italic or oblique
              fonts; a value of 50 (0.05 em) usually is a reasonable choice.

FILES
       /usr/share/groff/1.19.2/font/devlj4/DESC            Device description
                                                           file.

       /usr/share/groff/1.19.2/font/devlj4/F               Font description
                                                           file for font F.

       /usr/share/groff/1.19.2/font/devlj4/generate/*.map  Symbol mapping
                                                           files

SEE ALSO
       groff(1), groff_diff(1), grolj4(1), groff_font(5), lj4_font(5)



Groff Version 1.19.2            14 January 2004                    HPFTODIT(1)
