HTPASSWD(1)                        htpasswd                        HTPASSWD(1)



NAME
       htpasswd - Manage user files for basic authentication


SYNOPSIS
       htpasswd  [ -c ] [ -i ] [ -m | -B | -d | -s | -p ] [ -C cost ] [ -D ] [
       -v ] passwdfile username


       htpasswd -b [ -c ] [ -m | -B | -d | -s | -p ] [ -C cost ] [ -D ] [ -v ]
       passwdfile username password


       htpasswd -n [ -i ] [ -m | -B | -d | -s | -p ] [ -C cost ] username


       htpasswd -nb [ -m | -B | -d | -s | -p ] [ -C cost ] username password



SUMMARY
       htpasswd  is  used  to  create  and update the flat-files used to store
       usernames and password for  basic  authentication  of  HTTP  users.  If
       htpasswd  cannot  access a file, such as not being able to write to the
       output file or not being able to read the file in order to  update  it,
       it returns an error status and makes no changes.


       Resources  available  from  the Apache HTTP server can be restricted to
       just the users listed in the files created by  htpasswd.  This  program
       can  only  manage usernames and passwords stored in a flat-file. It can
       encrypt and display password information for use in other types of data
       stores, though. To use a DBM database see dbmmanage or htdbm.


       htpasswd encrypts passwords using either bcrypt, a version of MD5 modi-
       fied for Apache, SHA1, or the system's crypt() routine.  Files  managed
       by  htpasswd may contain a mixture of different encoding types of pass-
       words; some user records may have  bcrypt  or  MD5-encrypted  passwords
       while  others  in  the  same  file  may  have  passwords encrypted with
       crypt().


       This manual page only lists the command line arguments. For details  of
       the  directives necessary to configure user authentication in httpd see
       the Apache manual, which is part of the Apache distribution or  can  be
       found at http://httpd.apache.org/.



OPTIONS
       -b     Use  batch  mode;  i.e.,  get the password from the command line
              rather than prompting for it. This option should  be  used  with
              extreme  care, since the password is clearly visible on the com-
              mand line. For script use see the -i option. Available in  2.4.4
              and later.

       -i     Read  the  password  from stdin without verification (for script
              usage).

       -c     Create the passwdfile.  If  passwdfile  already  exists,  it  is
              rewritten and truncated. This option cannot be combined with the
              -n option.

       -n     Display the results on standard output rather  than  updating  a
              file.  This is useful for generating password records acceptable
              to Apache for inclusion in non-text  data  stores.  This  option
              changes  the  syntax  of  the command line, since the passwdfile
              argument (usually the first one) is omitted. It cannot  be  com-
              bined with the -c option.

       -m     Use  MD5  encryption  for  passwords. This is the default (since
              version 2.2.18).

       -B     Use bcrypt encryption for passwords. This is  currently  consid-
              ered to be very secure.

       -C     This flag is only allowed in combination with -B (bcrypt encryp-
              tion). It sets the computing time used for the bcrypt  algorithm
              (higher  is more secure but slower, default: 5, valid: 4 to 31).

       -d     Use crypt() encryption for passwords. This is not  supported  by
              the  httpd  server on Windows and Netware. This algorithm limits
              the password length to 8 characters. This algorithm is  insecure
              by  today's standards. It used to be the default algorithm until
              version 2.2.17.

       -s     Use SHA encryption for passwords. Facilitates migration  from/to
              Netscape  servers  using  the  LDAP Directory Interchange Format
              (ldif). This algorithm is insecure by today's standards.

       -p     Use plaintext passwords. Though htpasswd will  support  creation
              on  all  platforms, the httpd daemon will only accept plain text
              passwords on Windows and Netware.

       -D     Delete user. If the username exists in  the  specified  htpasswd
              file, it will be deleted.

       -v     Verify  password.  Verify  that  the  given password matches the
              password of the user stored  in  the  specified  htpasswd  file.
              Available in 2.4.5 and later.

       passwdfile
              Name of the file to contain the user name and password. If -c is
              given, this file is created if it does  not  already  exist,  or
              rewritten and truncated if it does exist.

       username
              The username to create or update in passwdfile. If username does
              not exist in this file, an entry is added. If it does exist, the
              password is changed.

       password
              The  plaintext  password to be encrypted and stored in the file.
              Only used with the -b flag.


EXIT STATUS
       htpasswd returns a zero status ("true") if the  username  and  password
       have  been  successfully  added  or updated in the passwdfile. htpasswd
       returns 1 if it encounters some problem accessing files, 2 if there was
       a  syntax  problem with the command line, 3 if the password was entered
       interactively and the verification entry didn't match, 4 if its  opera-
       tion  was  interrupted,  5  if a value is too long (username, filename,
       password, or final computed record), 6 if the username contains illegal
       characters  (see  the Restrictions section), and 7 if the file is not a
       valid password file.


EXAMPLES
             htpasswd /usr/local/etc/apache/.htpasswd-users jsmith



       Adds or modifies the password for user jsmith. The user is prompted for
       the  password. The password will be encrypted using the modified Apache
       MD5 algorithm. If the file does not exist,  htpasswd  will  do  nothing
       except return an error.


             htpasswd -c /home/doe/public_html/.htpasswd jane



       Creates a new file and stores a record in it for user jane. The user is
       prompted for the password. If the file exists and cannot  be  read,  or
       cannot  be  written, it is not altered and htpasswd will display a mes-
       sage and return an error status.


             htpasswd -db /usr/web/.htpasswd-all jones Pwd4Steve



       Encrypts the password from  the  command  line  (Pwd4Steve)  using  the
       crypt() algorithm, and stores it in the specified file.


SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
       Web  password  files  such  as  those managed by htpasswd should not be
       within the Web server's URI space -- that is, they should not be fetch-
       able with a browser.


       This program is not safe as a setuid executable. Do not make it setuid.


       The use of the -b option is discouraged, since  when  it  is  used  the
       unencrypted password appears on the command line.


       When using the crypt() algorithm, note that only the first 8 characters
       of the password are used to form the password. If the supplied password
       is longer, the extra characters will be silently discarded.


       The  SHA  encryption format does not use salting: for a given password,
       there is only one encrypted representation. The crypt() and MD5 formats
       permute  the representation by prepending a random salt string, to make
       dictionary attacks against the passwords more difficult.


       The SHA and crypt() formats are insecure by today's standards.


RESTRICTIONS
       On the Windows platform, passwords encrypted with htpasswd are  limited
       to  no  more  than  255  characters in length. Longer passwords will be
       truncated to 255 characters.


       The MD5 algorithm used by htpasswd is specific to the Apache  software;
       passwords encrypted using it will not be usable with other Web servers.


       Usernames are limited to 255 bytes and may not include the character :.




Apache HTTP Server                2014-06-24                       HTPASSWD(1)
