ICONV(1)                   Linux Programmer's Manual                  ICONV(1)



NAME
       iconv - character set conversion

SYNOPSIS
       iconv [OPTION...] [-f encoding] [-t encoding] [inputfile ...]
       iconv -l

DESCRIPTION
       The  iconv program converts text from one encoding to another encoding.
       More precisely, it converts from the encoding given for the  -f  option
       to  the  encoding  given  for  the -t option. Either of these encodings
       defaults to the encoding of the current locale. All the inputfiles  are
       read  and  converted  in  turn;  if no inputfile is given, the standard
       input is used. The converted text is printed to standard output.

       The encodings permitted are system dependent. For the  libiconv  imple-
       mentation, they are listed in the iconv_open(3) manual page.

       Options controlling the input and output format:

       -f encoding, --from-code=encoding
              Specifies the encoding of the input.

       -t encoding, --to-code=encoding
              Specifies the encoding of the output.

       Options controlling conversion problems:

       -c     When  this  option is given, characters that cannot be converted
              are silently discarded,  instead  of  leading  to  a  conversion
              error.

       --unicode-subst=formatstring
              When  this  option  is  given, Unicode characters that cannot be
              represented in the target encoding are replaced  with  a  place-
              holder  string  that is constructed from the given formatstring,
              applied to the Unicode code point. The formatstring  must  be  a
              format  string  in  the same format as for the printf command or
              the printf() function, taking either no argument or exactly  one
              unsigned integer argument.

       --byte-subst=formatstring
              When this option is given, bytes in the input that are not valid
              in the source encoding are replaced with  a  placeholder  string
              that  is constructed from the given formatstring, applied to the
              byte's value. The formatstring must be a format  string  in  the
              same  format as for the printf command or the printf() function,
              taking either no argument or exactly one unsigned integer  argu-
              ment.

       --widechar-subst=formatstring
              When this option is given, wide characters in the input that are
              not valid in the source encoding are replaced with a placeholder
              string  that is constructed from the given formatstring, applied
              to the byte's value. The formatstring must be a format string in
              the  same format as for the printf command or the printf() func-
              tion, taking either no argument or exactly one unsigned  integer
              argument.

       Options controlling error output:

       -s, --silent
              When  this  option  is  given,  error  messages about invalid or
              unconvertible characters are omitted, but the  actual  converted
              text is unaffected.

       The  iconv  -l or iconv --list command lists the names of the supported
       encodings, in a system dependent format. For the  libiconv  implementa-
       tion, the names are printed in upper case, separated by whitespace, and
       alias names of an encoding are listed on the same line as the  encoding
       itself.

EXAMPLES
       iconv -f ISO-8859-1 -t UTF-8
              converts input from the old West-European encoding ISO-8859-1 to
              Unicode.

       iconv -f KOI8-R --byte-subst="<0x%x>"
                       --unicode-subst="<U+%04X>"
              converts input from the  old  Russian  encoding  KOI8-R  to  the
              locale  encoding,  substituting  an  angle bracket notation with
              hexadecimal numbers for invalid bytes and for valid  but  uncon-
              vertible characters.

       iconv --list
              lists the supported encodings.

SEE ALSO
       iconv_open(3)



GNU                            January 22, 2006                       ICONV(1)
