jarsigner(1)                                                      jarsigner(1)



NAME
       jarsigner - JAR signing and verification tool

SYNOPSIS
       jarsigner [ options ] jar-file alias
       jarsigner -verify [ options ] jar-file alias

DESCRIPTION
       The jarsigner tool is used for two purposes:

       1.   to sign Java ARchive (JAR) files, and

       2.   to verify the signatures and integrity of signed JAR files.

       The  JAR  feature enables the packaging of class files, images, sounds,
       and other digital data in a single file for faster and easier distribu-
       tion. A tool named jar enables developers to produce JAR files.

       A digital signature is a string of bits that is computed from some data
       (the data being "signed") and the private key of an entity  (a  person,
       company,  etc.).  Like a handwritten signature, a digital signature has
       many useful characteristics:

       o Its authenticity can be verified, via a  computation  that  uses  the
         public key corresponding to the private key used to generate the sig-
         nature.

       o It cannot be forged, assuming the private key is kept secret.

       o It is a function of the data signed and thus can't be claimed  to  be
         the signature for other data as well.

       o The  signed  data  cannot be changed; if it is, the signature will no
         longer verify as being authentic.

       In order for an entity's signature to be  generated  for  a  file,  the
       entity  must  first  have a public/private key pair associated with it,
       and also one or more certificates authenticating its public key. A cer-
       tificate  is  a digitally signed statement from one entity, saying that
       the public key of some other entity has a particular value.

       jarsigner uses key and certificate information from a keystore to  gen-
       erate  digital  signatures  for  JAR files. A keystore is a database of
       private keys and their associated X.509 certificate chains authenticat-
       ing  the corresponding public keys. The keytool utility is used to cre-
       ate and administer keystores.

       jarsigner uses an entity's private key to generate  a  signature.   The
       signed JAR file contains, among other things, a copy of the certificate
       from the keystore for the public key corresponding to the  private  key
       used  to  sign the file.  jarsigner can verify the digital signature of
       the signed JAR file using the certificate inside it (in  its  signature
       block file).

       At  this time, jarsigner can only sign JAR files created by the JDK jar
       tool or zip files. (JAR files are the same as zip  files,  except  they
       also  have  a META-INF/MANIFEST.MF file. Such a file will automatically
       be created when jarsigner signs a zip file.)

       The default jarsigner behavior is to sign a JAR file. Use  the  -verify
       option to instead have it verify a signed JAR file.

   Compatibility with JDK 1.1
       The  keytool  and  jarsigner  tools completely replace the javakey tool
       provided in JDK  1.1.  These  new  tools  provide  more  features  than
       javakey, including the ability to protect the keystore and private keys
       with passwords, and the ability to verify  signatures  in  addition  to
       generating them.

       The  new  keystore  architecture  replaces  the  identity database that
       javakey created  and  managed.  There  is  no  backwards  compatibility
       between  the keystore format and the database format used by javakey in
       1.1. However:

       o It is possible to import the information from  an  identity  database
         into a keystore, via the keytool -identitydb command

       o jarsigner can sign JAR files also previously signed using javakey

       o jarsigner  can  verify JAR files signed using javakey Thus, it recog-
         nizes and can work with signer aliases that are from a JDK 1.1  iden-
         tity database rather than a JDK 1.2 keystore.

       The  following  table  explains  how  JAR files that were signed in JDK
       1.1.x are treated in the Java 2 Platform.


                                Trusted
                               Identity
                               imported     Policy File
       JAR File  Identity in   into 1.2       grants        Privileges
         Type   1.1 database   keystore    privileges to     Granted
                               from 1.1   Identity/Alias
                               database
                                  (4)

       Signed                                             Default
       JAR      NO            NO         NO               privaleges
                                                          granted to
                                                          all code.

       Unsigned                                           Default
       JAR      NO            NO         NO               privileges
                                                          granted to
                                                          all code.

       Signed                                             Default
       JAR      NO            YES        NO               privileges
                                                          granted to
                                                          all code.

       Signed                                             Default
       JAR      YES/Untrusted NO         NO               privileges
                                                          granted to
                                                          all code. (3)

       Signed                                             Default
       JAR      YES/Untrusted NO         YES              privileges
                                                          granted to
                                                          all code.
                                                          (1,3)

       Signed                                             Default
       JAR      NO            YES        YES              privileges
                                                          granted to
                                                          all code plus
                                                          privileges
                                                          granted in
                                                          policy file.

       Signed                                             Default
       JAR      YES/Trusted   YES        YES              privileges
                                                          granted to
                                                          all code plus
                                                          privileges
                                                          granted in
                                                          policy file.
                                                          (2)

       Signed                                             All
       JAR      YES/Trusted   NO         NO               privileges

       Signed                                             All
       JAR      YES/Trusted   YES        NO               privileges
                                                          (1)

       Signed                                             All
       JAR      YES/Trusted   NO         YES              privileges
                                                          (1)


       Notes:

       1.   If an identity/alias is mentioned in the policy file, it  must  be
            imported  into the keystore for the policy file to have any effect
            on privileges granted.

       1.   If an identity/alias is mentioned in the policy file, it  must  be
            imported  into the keystore for the policy file to have any effect
            on privileges granted.

       2.   The policy file/keystore combination has precedence over a trusted
            identity in the identity database.

       3.   Untrusted identities are ignored in the Java 2 platform.

       4.   Only trusted identities can be imported into Java 2 SDK keystores.

   Keystore Aliases
       All keystore entities are accessed via unique aliases.

       When using jarsigner to sign a JAR file, you must specify the alias for
       the  keystore  entry  containing the private key needed to generate the
       signature. For example, the following will  sign  the  JAR  file  named
       MyJARFile.jar,  using the private key associated with the alias duke in
       the keystore named mystore in the "working" directory. Since no  output
       file  is  specified,  it  overwrites  MyJARFile.jar with the signed JAR
       file.

       jarsigner -keystore /working/mystore -storepass
          myspass -keypass dukekeypasswd MyJARFile.jar duke

       Keystores are protected with a password, so the store password (in this
       case  myspass)  must  be  specified. You will be prompted for it if you
       don't specify it on the command line. Similarly, private keys are  pro-
       tected in a keystore with a password, so the private key's password (in
       this case dukekeypasswd) must be specified, and you  will  be  prompted
       for  it  if  you  don't specify it on the command line and it isn't the
       same as the store password.

   Keystore Location
       jarsigner has a -keystore option for specifying the name  and  location
       of the keystore to be used. The keystore is by default stored in a file
       named .keystore in the user's home  directory,  as  determined  by  the
       user.home system property.

       Note  that  the input stream from the -keystore option is passed to the
       KeyStore.load method.  If NONE is specified as the  URL,  then  a  null
       stream  is passed to the KeyStore.load method. NONE should be specified
       if the KeyStore is not file-based, for example,  if  it  resides  on  a
       hardware token device.

   Keystore Implementation
       The KeyStore class provided in the java.security package supplies well-
       defined interfaces to access and modify the information in a  keystore.
       It  is possible for there to be multiple different concrete implementa-
       tions, where each implementation is that for a particular type of  key-
       store.

       Currently,  there are two command-line tools that make use of KeyStore:
       keytool and jarsigner, and also  a  GUI-based  tool  named  policytool.
       Since  KeyStore  is  publicly available, JDK users can write additional
       security applications that use it.

       There is a built-in default implementation, provided by  Sun  Microsys-
       tems.  It  implements  the  keystore as a file, utilizing a proprietary
       keystore type (format) named "JKS". It protects each private  key  with
       its  individual password, and also protects the integrity of the entire
       keystore with a (possibly different) password.

       Keystore implementations are  provider-based.  More  specifically,  the
       application interfaces supplied by KeyStore are implemented in terms of
       a "Service Provider Interface" (SPI). That is, there is a corresponding
       abstract  KeystoreSpi  class,  also in the java.security package, which
       defines the Service Provider Interface methods  that  "providers"  must
       implement.  (The  term "provider" refers to a package or a set of pack-
       ages that supply a concrete implementation of a subset of services that
       can  be accessed by the Java Security API.) Thus, to provide a keystore
       implementation, clients must implement a provider  and  supply  a  Key-
       storeSpi  subclass  implementation,  as described in How to Implement a
       Provider for the Java Cryptography Architecture.

       Applications can choose different  types  of  keystore  implementations
       from different providers, using the getInstance factory method supplied
       in the KeyStore class. A keystore type defines  the  storage  and  data
       format  of the keystore information, and the algorithms used to protect
       private keys in the keystore and the integrity of the keystore  itself.
       Keystore implementations of different types are not compatible.

       keytool  works  on  any file-based keystore implementation.  (It treats
       the keytore location that is passed to it at  the  command  line  as  a
       filename  and converts it to a FileInputStream, from which it loads the
       keystore information.) The jarsigner and policytool tools, on the other
       hand, can read a keystore from any location that can be specified using
       a URL.

       For jarsigner and keytool, you can specify a keystore type at the  com-
       mand line, via the -storetype option. For policytool, you can specify a
       keystore type via the "Change Keystore" command in the Edit menu.

       If you don't explicitly specify a keystore type,  the  tools  choose  a
       keystore  implementation based simply on the value of the keystore.type
       property specified in the security properties file.  The security prop-
       erties  file  is  called  java.security, and it resides in the security
       properties directory, java.home/lib/security, where  java.home  is  the
       runtime  environment's  directory  (the jre directory in the SDK or the
       top-level directory of the Java 2 Runtime Environment).

       Each tool gets the keystore.type value and then examines all  the  cur-
       rently-installed providers until it finds one that implements keystores
       of that type. It  then  uses  the  keystore  implementation  from  that
       provider.

       The  KeyStore  class  defines a static method named getDefaultType that
       lets applications and applets retrieve the value of  the  keystore.type
       property. The following line of code creates an instance of the default
       keystore type (as specified in the keystore.type property):

            KeyStore  keyStore   =   KeyStore.getInstance(KeyStore.getDefault-
            Type());

       The  default  keystore  type is "jks" (the proprietary type of the key-
       store implementation provided by Sun). This is specified by the follow-
       ing line in the security properties file:

            keystore.type=jks

       To  have  the  tools  utilize  a keystore implementation other than the
       default, change that line to specify a different keystore type.

       For example, if you have a provider package that  supplies  a  keystore
       implementation for a keystore type called "pkcs12", change the line to

       keystore.type=pkcs12

       Note:  case doesn't matter in keystore type designations.  For example,
       "JKS" would be considered the same as "jks".

   Supported Algorithms and Key Sizes
       At this time, jarsigner can sign a JAR file using either

       o DSA (Digital Signature Algorithm) with the SHA-1 digest algorithm, or

       o the RSA algorithm with the MD5 digest algorithm.

       That  is,  if  the  signer's public and private keys are DSA keys, jar-
       signer will attempt to sign the JAR file using the SHA-1/DSA algorithm.
       If  the  signer's  keys  are RSA keys, jarsigner will sign the JAR file
       using the MD5/RSA algorithm. This is only possible if there is a stati-
       cally  installed  provider  supplying an implementation for the MD5/RSA
       algorithm. (There is always a SHA-1/DSA algorithm available,  from  the
       default "SUN" provider.)


   The Signed JAR File
       When  jarsigner  is used to sign a JAR file, the output signed JAR file
       is exactly the same as the input JAR file, except that it has two addi-
       tional files placed in the META-INF directory:

       o a signature file, with a .SF extension, and

       o a signature block file, with a .DSA extension.

       The  base  file  names  for  these two files come from the value of the
       -sigFile option. For example, if the option appears as

       -sigFile MKSIGN

       the files are named MKSIGN.SF and MKSIGN.DSA.

       If no -sigfile option appears on the command line, the base  file  name
       for  the .SF and .DSA files will be the first 8 characters of the alias
       name specified on the command line, all converted to upper case. If the
       alias name has fewer than 8 characters, the full alias name is used. If
       the alias name contains any characters that are not allowed in a signa-
       ture file name, each such character is converted to an underscore ("_")
       character in forming the file name. Legal characters  include  letters,
       digits, underscores, and hyphens.

       The Signature (.SF) File

       A signature file (the .SF file) looks similar to the manifest file that
       is always included in a JAR file generated by the jar  tool.  That  is,
       for  each  source file included in the JAR file, the .SF file has three
       lines, just as in the manifest file, listing the following:

       o the file name,

       o the name of the digest algorithm used (SHA), and

       o a SHA digest value.

       In the manifest file, the SHA digest value for each source file is  the
       digest  (hash)  of the binary data in the source file. In the .SF file,
       on the other hand, the digest value for a given source file is the hash
       of the three lines in the manifest file for the source file.

       The  signature  file  also,  by default, includes a header containing a
       hash of the whole manifest file. The presence  of  the  header  enables
       verification optimization, as described in JAR File Verification.

       The Signature Block (.DSA) File

       The  .SF  file  is signed and the signature is placed in the .DSA file.
       The .DSA file also contains, encoded inside it, a certificate authenti-
       cating  the  public key corresponding to the private key used for sign-
       ing.


   JAR File Verification
       A successful JAR file  verification  occurs  if  the  signature(s)  are
       valid,  and none of the files that were in the JAR file when the signa-
       tures were generated have been changed since then. JAR  file  verifica-
       tion involves the following steps:

       1.   Verify the signature of the .SF file itself.

            That  is,  the  verification  ensures that the signature stored in
            each signature block (.DSA) file was in fact generated  using  the
            private key corresponding to the public key whose certificate also
            appears in the .DSA file. It also ensures that the signature is  a
            valid  signature  of  the  corresponding signature (.SF) file, and
            thus the .SF file has not been tampered with.

       2.   Verify the digest listed in each entry in the .SF file  with  each
            corresponding section in the manifest.

            The .SF file by default includes a header containing a hash of the
            entire manifest file. When the header is present, then the verifi-
            cation  can  check  to  see  whether or not the hash in the header
            indeed matches the hash of the manifest file. If that is the case,
            verification proceeds to the next step.

            If that is not the case, a less optimized verification is required
            to ensure that the hash in each source file information section in
            the  .SF  file equals the hash of its corresponding section in the
            manifest file (see The Signature (.SF) File).

            One reason the hash of the manifest file that is stored in the .SF
            file  header  may  not equal the hash of the current manifest file
            would be because one or more files were  added  to  the  JAR  file
            (using  the  jar tool) after the signature (and thus the .SF file)
            was generated. When the jar tool is used to add files,  the  mani-
            fest file is changed (sections are added to it for the new files),
            but the .SF file is not. A verification is still  considered  suc-
            cessful  if  none  of the files that were in the JAR file when the
            signature was generated have been changed since then, which is the
            case  if  the  hashes  in  the non-header sections of the .SF file
            equal the hashes of the corresponding  sections  in  the  manifest
            file.

       3.   Read  each file in the JAR file that has an entry in the .SF file.
            While reading, compute the file's digest,  and  then  compare  the
            result  with the digest for this file in the manifest section. The
            digests should be the same, or verification fails.

       If any serious verification  failures  occur  during  the  verification
       process,  the process is stopped and a security exception is thrown. It
       is caught and displayed by jarsigner.


   Multiple Signatures for a JAR File
       A JAR file can be signed by multiple people simply by running the  jar-
       signer tool on the file multiple times, specifying the alias for a dif-
       ferent person each time, as in:

       jarsigner myBundle.jar susan
       jarsigner myBundle.jar kevin

       When a JAR file is signed multiple times, there are  multiple  .SF  and
       .DSA  files  in  the  resulting  JAR file, one pair for each signature.
       Thus, in the example above, the output JAR file includes files with the
       following names:

       SUSAN.SF
       SUSAN.DSA
       KEVIN.SF
       KEVIN.DSA

       Note: It is also possible for a JAR file to have mixed signatures, some
       generated by the JDK 1.1 javakey tool and others by jarsigner. That is,
       jarsigner can be used to sign JAR files already previously signed using
       javakey.

OPTIONS
       The various jarsigner options are listed and described below.  Note:

       o All option names are preceded by a minus sign (-).

       o The options may be provided in any order.

       o Items in italics (option values) represent  the  actual  values  that
         must be supplied.

       o The -keystore, -storepass, -keypass, -sigfile, and -signedjar options
         are only relevant when signing a  JAR  file,  not  when  verifying  a
         signed JAR file. Similarly, an alias is only specified on the command
         line when signing a JAR file.

       -keystore url  Specifies the URL that tells the keystore location. This
                      defaults to the file .keystore in the user's home direc-
                      tory, as determined by the user.home system property.

                      A keystore is required when signing, so you must explic-
                      itly  specify one if the default keystore does not exist
                      (or you want to use one other than the default).

                      A keystore is not required when verifying, but if one is
                      specified,  or  the  default  exists,  and  the -verbose
                      option was also  specified,  additional  information  is
                      output  regarding whether or not any of the certificates
                      used to verify the JAR file are contained in  that  key-
                      store.

                      Note: the -keystore argument can actually be a file name
                      (and path) specification rather than  a  URL,  in  which
                      case  it will be treated the same as a "file:" URL. That
                      is,

                      -keystore filePathAndName

                      is treated as equivalent to

                      -keystore file:filePathAndName


       -storetype storetype
                      Specifies the type of keystore to be  instantiated.  The
                      default  keystore  type  is the one that is specified as
                      the value of the "keystore.type" property in  the  secu-
                      rity  properties  file,  which is returned by the static
                      getDefaultType method in java.security.KeyStore.

       -storepass password
                      Specifies the password which is required to  access  the
                      keystore.  This is only needed when signing (not verify-
                      ing) a JAR file. In that case, if a -storepass option is
                      not  provided  at the command line, the user is prompted
                      for the password.

                      Note: The password shouldn't be specified on the command
                      line  or  in a script unless it is for testing purposes,
                      or you are on a secure system. Also, when  typing  in  a
                      password  at the password prompt, the password is echoed
                      (displayed exactly as typed), so be careful not to  type
                      it in front of anyone.

       -keypass password
                      Specifies  the  password used to protect the private key
                      of the keystore entry addressed by the  alias  specified
                      on the command line. The password is required when using
                      jarsigner to sign a JAR file. If no password is provided
                      on  the  command line, and the required password is dif-
                      ferent from the store password, the user is prompted for
                      it.

                      Note: The password shouldn't be specified on the command
                      line or in a script unless it is for  testing  purposes,
                      or  you  are  on a secure system. Also, when typing in a
                      password at the password prompt, the password is  echoed
                      (displayed  exactly as typed), so be careful not to type
                      it in front of anyone.

       -sigfile file  Specifies the base file name to be used for  the  gener-
                      ated  .SF  and .DSA files. For example, if file is DUKE-
                      SIGN, the generated .SF and .DSA  files  will  be  named
                      DUKESIGN.SF  and DUKESIGN.DSA, and will be placed in the
                      META-INF directory of the signed JAR file.

                      The characters in file must come  from  the  set  "a-zA-
                      Z0-9_-".   That  is,  only letters, numbers, underscore,
                      and hyphen characters are allowed.  Note: All  lowercase
                      characters  will  be  converted to uppercase for the .SF
                      and .DSA file names.

                      If no -sigfile option appears on the command  line,  the
                      base  file  name  for the .SF and .DSA files will be the
                      first 8 characters of the alias name  specified  on  the
                      command  line, all converted to upper case. If the alias
                      name has fewer than 8 characters, the full alias name is
                      used.   If  the  alias name contains any characters that
                      are not legal in a signature file name, each such  char-
                      acter  is  converted to an underscore ("_") character in
                      forming the file name.

       -signedjar file
                      Specifies the name to be used for the signed JAR file.

                      If no name is specified on the command  line,  the  name
                      used is the same as the input JAR file name (the name of
                      the JAR file to be signed); in other words, that file is
                      overwritten with the signed JAR file.

       -verify        If  this  appears on the command line, the specified JAR
                      file will be verified, not signed. If  the  verification
                      is  successful, "jar verified" will be displayed. If you
                      try to verify an unsigned JAR file, or a JAR file signed
                      with an unsupported algorithm (for example, RSA when you
                      don't have an RSA provider installed), the following  is
                      displayed:  "jar is unsigned. (signatures missing or not
                      parsable)"

                      It is possible to verify JAR files signed  using  either
                      jarsigner or the JDK 1.1 javakey tool, or both.

                      For  further  information  on verification, see JAR File
                      Verification.

       -certs         If this appears on the  command  line,  along  with  the
                      -verify  and  -verbose options, the output includes cer-
                      tificate information for each signer of  the  JAR  file.
                      This information includes:

                      o the  name  of  the  type of certificate (stored in the
                        .DSA file) that certifies the signer's public key

                      o if the  certificate  is  an  X.509  certificate  (more
                        specifically,     an     instance     of    java.secu-
                        rity.cert.X509Certificate): the distinguished name  of
                        the signer

                      The  keystore  is also examined. If no keystore value is
                      specified on the command line, the default keystore file
                      (if  any) will be checked. If the public key certificate
                      for a signer matches an entry in the keystore, then  the
                      following information will also be displayed:

                      o in  parentheses, the alias name for the keystore entry
                        for that signer. If the signer actually comes  from  a
                        JDK  1.1 identity database instead of from a keystore,
                        the alias name will  appear  in  brackets  instead  of
                        parentheses.

       -verbose       If  this appears on the command line, it indicates "ver-
                      bose" mode,  which  causes  jarsigner  to  output  extra
                      information  as  to  the  progress of the JAR signing or
                      verification.

       -internalsf    In the past, the .DSA (signature block)  file  generated
                      when  a  JAR  file was signed used to include a complete
                      encoded copy of the .SF file (signature file) also  gen-
                      erated.  This  behavior  has been changed. To reduce the
                      overall size of the output JAR file, the  .DSA  file  by
                      default  doesn't contain a copy of the .SF file anymore.
                      But if -internalsf appears on the command line, the  old
                      behavior  is  utilized. This option is mainly useful for
                      testing; in practice, it should not be used, since doing
                      so eliminates a useful optimization.

       -sectionsonly  If  this appears on the command line, the .SF file (sig-
                      nature file) generated when a JAR file  is  signed  does
                      not include a header containing a hash of the whole man-
                      ifest file. It  just  contains  information  and  hashes
                      related  to  each individual source file included in the
                      JAR file, as described in The Signature (.SF) File .

                      By default, this header is added,  as  an  optimization.
                      When  the  header is present, then whenever the JAR file
                      is verified, the verification can  first  check  to  see
                      whether or not the hash in the header indeed matches the
                      hash of the whole manifest  file.  If  so,  verification
                      proceeds to the next step. If not, it is necessary to do
                      a less optimized verification  that  the  hash  in  each
                      source  file  information section in the .SF file equals
                      the hash of its corresponding section  in  the  manifest
                      file.

                      For further information, see JAR File Verification.

                      This  option  is mainly useful for testing; in practice,
                      it should not be used, since doing so eliminates a  use-
                      ful optimization.

       -provider provider_class_name
                      Used  to  specify  the name of the cryptographic service
                      provider's master class file when the  service  provider
                      is not listed in the security properties file.

       -Jjavaoption   Passes  the  specified javaoption string directly to the
                      runtime system.   (jarsigner  is  actually  a  "wrapper"
                      around  the interpreter.) This option should not contain
                      any spaces.  It is useful for  adjusting  the  execution
                      environment  or  memory  usage.   For a list of possible
                      flags, type java -h or java -X at the command line.

EXAMPLES
   Signing a JAR File
       Suppose you have a JAR file named bundle.jar and you'd like to sign  it
       using the private key of the user whose keystore alias is "jane" in the
       keystore named "mystore" in the "working" directory. Suppose  the  key-
       store  password is "myspass" and the password for jane's private key is
       "j638klm". You can use the following to sign the JAR file and name  the
       signed JAR file "sbundle.jar":

       jarsigner -keystore "/working/mystore" -storepass myspass
          -keypass j638klm -signedjar sbundle.jar bundle.jar jane

       Note  that  there is no -sigfile specified in the command above, so the
       generated .SF and .DSA files to be placed in the signed JAR  file  will
       have default names based on the alias name. That is, they will be named
       JANE.SF and JANE.DSA.

       If you want to be prompted for the store password and the  private  key
       password, you could shorten the above command to

       jarsigner -keystore /working/mystore
          -signedjar sbundle.jar bundle.jar jane

       If the keystore to be used is the default keystore (the one named .key-
       store in your home directory), you don't need to specify a keystore, as
       in:

       jarsigner -signedjar sbundle.jar bundle.jar jane

       Finally,  if you want the signed JAR file to simply overwrite the input
       JAR file (bundle.jar), you don't need to specify a -signedjar option:

       jarsigner bundle.jar jane

   Verifying a Signed JAR File
       To verify a signed JAR file, that is, to verify that the  signature  is
       valid  and  the JAR file has not been tampered with, use a command such
       as the following:

       jarsigner -verify sbundle.jar

       If the verification is successful,

       jar verified.

       is displayed. Otherwise, an error message appears.

       You can get more information if you use the -verbose option.  A  sample
       use  of  jarsigner  with the -verbose option is shown below, along with
       sample output:

       jarsigner -verify -verbose sbundle.jar

                    198 Fri Sep 26 16:14:06 PDT 1997 META-INF/MANIFEST.MF
                    199 Fri Sep 26 16:22:10 PDT 1997 META-INF/JANE.SF
                   1013 Fri Sep 26 16:22:10 PDT 1997 META-INF/JANE.DSA
             smk   2752 Fri Sep 26 16:12:30 PDT 1997 AclEx.class
             smk    849 Fri Sep 26 16:12:46 PDT 1997 test.class

               s = signature was verified
               m = entry is listed in manifest
               k = at least one certificate was found in keystore

             jar verified.


   Verification with Certificate Information
       If you specify the -certs option when verifying, along with the -verify
       and  -verbose  options, the output includes certificate information for
       each signer of the JAR file, including the certificate type, the signer
       distinguished  name information (if it's an X.509 certificate), and, in
       parentheses, the keystore alias for the signer if the public  key  cer-
       tificate in the JAR file matches that in a keystore entry. For example,

       example% jarsigner -keystore /working/mystore -verify -verbose -certs myTest.jar

             198 Fri Sep 26 16:14:06 PDT 1997 META-INF/MANIFEST.MF
             199 Fri Sep 26 16:22:10 PDT 1997 META-INF/JANE.SF
            1013 Fri Sep 26 16:22:10 PDT 1997 META-INF/JANE.DSA
             208 Fri Sep 26 16:23:30 PDT 1997 META-INF/JAVATEST.SF
            1087 Fri Sep 26 16:23:30 PDT 1997 META-INF/JAVATEST.DSA
       smk   2752 Fri Sep 26 16:12:30 PDT 1997 Tst.class

        X.509, CN=Test Group, OU=Java Software, O=Sun Microsystems, L=CUP, S=CA, C=US (javatest)
        X.509, CN=Jane Smith, OU=Java Software, O=Sun, L=cup, S=ca, C=us (jane)

        s = signature was verified
        m = entry is listed in manifest
        k = at least one certificate was found in keystore

       jar verified.

       If the certificate for a signer is not an X.509 certificate,  there  is
       no  distinguished name information.  In that case, just the certificate
       type and the alias are shown. For example, if the certificate is a  PGP
       certificate, and the alias is "bob", you'd get

       PGP, (bob)


   Verification of a JAR File that Includes Idnetity Database Signers
       If  a JAR file has been signed using the JDK 1.1 javakey tool, and thus
       the signer is an alias in an identity database, the verification output
       includes  an  "i"  symbol.  If  the JAR file has been signed by both an
       alias in an identity database and an alias in a keystore, both "k"  and
       "i" appear.

       When the -certs option is used, any identity database aliases are shown
       in square brackets  rather  than  the  parentheses  used  for  keystore
       aliases. For example:

       jarsigner -keystore /working/mystore -verify -verbose -certs writeFile.jar

             198 Fri Sep 26 16:14:06 PDT 1997 META-INF/MANIFEST.MF
             199 Fri Sep 26 16:22:10 PDT 1997 META-INF/JANE.SF
            1013 Fri Sep 26 16:22:10 PDT 1997 META-INF/JANE.DSA
             199 Fri Sep 27 12:22:30 PDT 1997 META-INF/DUKE.SF
            1013 Fri Sep 27 12:22:30 PDT 1997 META-INF/DUKE.DSA
       smki   2752 Fri Sep 26 16:12:30 PDT 1997 writeFile.html

        X.509, CN=Jane Smith, OU=Java Software, O=Sun, L=cup, S=ca, C=us (jane)
        X.509, CN=Duke, OU=Java Software, O=Sun, L=cup, S=ca, C=us [duke]

        s = signature was verified
        m = entry is listed in manifest
        k = at least one certificate was found in keystore
        i = at least one certificate was found in identity scope

       jar verified.

       Note that the alias "duke" is in brackets to denote that it is an iden-
       tity database alias, not a keystore alias.

SEE ALSO
       jar(1), keytool(1)



                                  23 Jun 2004                     jarsigner(1)
