javaws(1)                                                            javaws(1)



NAME
       javaws - Java Web Start launcher command

SYNOPSIS
       javaws [ options ] [ URL ]

PARAMETERS
       options        Command-line options.  Options many be in any order. For
                      a discussion of the various options, see OPTIONS  below.

       URL            Uniform Resource Locator (URL) of the JNLP (Java Network
                      Launching Protocol) file.

DESCRIPTION
       The javaws command launches Java Web  Start,  which  is  the  reference
       implementation of the Java Network Launching Protocol (JNLP).  Java Web
       Start launches java application/applets hosted on a network.

       Without any options javaws will launch the Java JNLP  Application  Man-
       ager, from which users can launch applications/applet or configure Java
       Web Start.

       If a URL for a JNLP file is specified,  javaws  will  launch  the  Java
       application/applet specified in the JNLP file.

OPTIONS
       The javaws launcher has a set of options that are supported in the cur-
       rent release.  However, the options may be removed in a future release.
       All -X options are non-standard and subject to change.


       -offline
              Runs Java Web Start in offline mode.


       -uninstall URL
              Removes  a specific application/applet from the user's cache, as
              indicated by the URL for the JNLP file. Java Web Start will exit
              after the command has completed.


       -updateVersions
              Updates  the Java Web Start configuration file based on the cur-
              rent machine's settings. Java Web Start will exit when the  com-
              mand is completed.


       -Xclearcache
              Clears  the  user's  cache.   Java Web Start will exit after the
              command has completed.


       -Xnosplash
              Disables the display of the initial splash screen.


       -import
              Imports the application specified by the  URL  into  the  user's
              cache but does not run it..


       -silent
              When used with the -import option, imports in silent mode; i.e.,
              there will be no UI pop up. The process exit code will be either
              0 if successful or 1 if not.


       -codebase URL
              Replaces  the  codebase with URL in the jnlp file specified when
              importing the resources. URL must be a valid URL.


       -system
              Uses the system cache instead of the user cache.


       -shortcut
              Allows the creation of shortcuts during silent import.


       -association
              Allows the creation of associations during silent import.


       -open arguments
              If specified, replaces the arguments in the jnlp file with -open
              arguments.


       -print arguments
              If  specified,  replaces  the  arguments  in  the jnlp file with
              -print arguments.


       -online
              Runs in online mode (default behavior).


       -viewer
              Runs the Java Application Cache Viewer (default  if  no  URL  is
              specified).


       -userConfig property-name
              Clears the specified deployment property.


       -userConfig property-name property-value
              Sets the specified deployment property to the specified value.


       -wait  If  specified, the javaws process will not exit until the appli-
              cation exits.

FILES
       For more information about  the  user  and  system  cache  and  deploy-
       ment.properties                        files,                       see
       http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/guide/deployment/deployment-
       guide/properties.html

MORE INFORMATION
       For     more     information     about     Java    Web    Start,    see
       http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/guide/javaws/index.html.



                                 09 April 2004                       javaws(1)
