java(1)                                                                java(1)



NAME
       java - Java application launcher

SYNOPSIS
       java [ options ] class [ argument...  ]

       java [ options ] -jar file.jar
            [ argument...  ]

PARAMETERS
       options        Command-line options.

       class          Name of the class to be invoked.

       file.jar       Name  of the jar file to be invoked.  Used only with the
                      -jar option.

       argument       Argument passed to the main function.

DESCRIPTION
       The java tool launches a Java application.  It does this by starting  a
       Java  runtime environment, loading a specified class, and invoking that
       class's main method.  The method must be declared public and  static  ,
       it  must  not  return any value, and it must accept a String array as a
       parameter. The method declaration must look like the following:

          public static void main(String args[])

       By default, the first non-option argument is the name of the  class  to
       be  invoked.  A fully-qualified class name should be used.  If the -jar
       option is specified, the first non-option argument is the name of a JAR
       archive  containing  class and resource files for the application, with
       the startup class indicated by the Main-Class manifest header.

       The Java runtime searches for the  startup  class,  and  other  classes
       used,  in  three  sets  of  locations:  the  bootstrap  class path, the
       installed extensions, and the user class path.

       Non-option arguments after the class name or JAR file name  are  passed
       to the main function.

OPTIONS
       The  launcher  has  a set of standard options that are supported on the
       current runtime environment and will be supported in  future  releases.
       In  addition, the current impletmentations of the virtual machines sup-
       port a set of non-standard options that are subject to change in future
       releases.

   Standard Options
       -client             Selects  the  Java  HotSpot  Client  VM.   For more
                           information see Server-Class Machine  Detection  at
                           http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/guide/vm/server-
                           class.html

       -server             Selects the  Java  HotSpot  Server  VM.   For  more
                           information  see  Server-Class Machine Detection at
                           http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/guide/vm/server-
                           class.html

       -agentlib:libname[=options]
                           Load native agent library libname, e.g.,

            -agentlib:hprof
            -agentlib:jdwp=help
            -agentlib:hprof=help

       For   more  information,  see  JVMTI  Agent  Command  Line  Options  at
       http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/guide/jvmti/jvmti.html

       -agentpath:pathname[=options]
              Load a native agent library by full pathname. For more  informa-
              tion,    see    JVMTI    Agent    Command    Line   Options   at
              http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/guide/jvmti/jvmti.html

       -classpath classpath
       -cp classpath
              Specifies a list of directories, JAR archives, and ZIP  archives
              to  search for class files.  Class path entries are separated by
              colons (:). Specifying -classpath or -cp overrides  any  setting
              of the CLASSPATH environment variable.

              If -classpath and -cp are not used and CLASSPATH is not set, the
              user class path consists of the current directory (.).

       -Dproperty=value
              Sets a system property value.

       -d32, -d64
              Specified whether the program is to be run in a 32-bit or 64-bit
              environment if available.

              Currently, only the Java HotSpot Server VM supports 64-bit oper-
              ations and the -server option is implicit with the use of -d64 .
              This is subject to change in a future release.

              If  neither -d32 nor -d64 is specified, the default is to run in
              a 32-bit environment, except for 64-bit only systems.   This  is
              subject to change in a future release.

       -enableassertions :<package name>... |:<class name>
       -ea :<package name>... |:<class name>
              Enable assertions. Assertions are disabled by default.

              With  no  arguments,  enableassertions or -ea enable assertions.
              With one argument ending in "...", the switch enables assertions
              in the specified package and any subpackages. If the argument is
              simply "...", the switch enables assertions in the unnamed pack-
              age in the current working directory. With one argument not end-
              ing in "...", the switch enables  assertions  in  the  specified
              class.

              If  a  single  command line contains multiple instances of these
              switches,  they  are  processed  in  order  before  loading  any
              classes.  So,  for  example,  to  run  a program with assertions
              enabled only in package com.wombat.fruitbat  (and  any  subpack-
              ages), the following command could be used:

              java -ea:com.wombat.fruitbat... <Main Class>

              The  -enableassertions  and  -ea switches apply to all s loaders
              and to system classes (which do not have a class loader).  There
              is  one  exception  to this rule: in their no-argument form, the
              switches do not apply to system.  This makes it easy to turn  on
              asserts  in  all  classes  except for system classes. A separate
              switch is provided to enable asserts in all system classes;  see
              -enablesystemassertions below.

       -disableassertions :<package name>... |:<class name>
       -da :<package name>... |:<class name>/fR
              Disable assertions. This is the default.

              With no arguments, disableassertions or -da disables assertions.
              With one argument ending in "...", the  switch  disables  asser-
              tions in the specified package and any subpackages. If the argu-
              ment is simply "...", the  switch  disables  assertions  in  the
              unnamed package in the rent working directory. With one argument
              not ending in "...", the switch disables assertions in the spec-
              ified class.

              To  run  a  program  with assertions enabled in package com.wom-
              bat.fruitbat but disabled in class com.wombat.fruitbat.Brickbat,
              the following command could be used:

              java -ea:com.wombat.fruitbat... -da:com.wombat.fruitbat.Brickbat
              <Main Class>

              The -disableassertions and -da switches apply to all ss  loaders
              and to system classes (which do not have a class loader).  There
              is one exception to this rule: in their  no-argument  form,  the
              switches  do  not apply to system. This makes it easy to turn on
              asserts in all classes except for  system  classes.  A  separate
              switch  is provided to enable asserts in all system classes; see
              -disablesystemassertions below.

       -enablesystemassertions
       -esa   Enable asserts in all system classes (sets the default assertion
              status for system classes to true).

       -disablesystemassertions
       -dsa   Disables asserts in all system classes


       -jar   Execute  a  program  encapsulated  in  a JAR archive.  The first
              argument is the name of a JAR file instead of  a  startup  class
              name.  In order for this option to work, the manifest of the JAR
              file must contain  a  line  of  the  form  Main-Class:classname.
              Here,  classname  identifies  the class having the public static
              void main(String[] args) method that  serves  as  your  applica-
              tion's  starting point.  See the Jar tool reference page and the
              Jar trail of the Java Tutorial  for  information  about  working
              with Jar files and Jar-file manifests.


              When you use this option, the JAR file is the source of all user
              classes, and other user class path settings are ignored.


              Note that JAR files that can be run with the "java -jar"  option
              can  have their execute permissions set so they can be run with-
              out using "java -jar". Refer to Java Archive (JAR) Files.


       -javaagent:jarpath[=options]
              Load a Java programming language  agent,  see  java.lang.instru-
              ment.

       -verbose
       -verbose:class
              Displays information about each class loaded.

       -verbose:gc
              Reports on each garbage collection event.

       -verbose:jni
              Reports  information  about use of native methods and other Java
              Native Interface activity.

       -version
              Displays version information and exit.

       -showversion
              Displays version information and continues.

       -?
       -help  Displays usage information and exit.

       -X     Displays information about non-standard options and exit.

   Non-Standard Options
       -Xint               Operates in interpreted-only mode.  Compilation  to
                           native code is disabled, and all bytecodes are exe-
                           cuted by the interpreter.  The performance benefits
                           offered  by the Java HotSpot VMs' adaptive compiler
                           will not be present in this mode.

       -Xbatch             Disable background  compilation.  Normally  the  VM
                           will  compile the method as a background task, run-
                           ning the method in interpreter mode until the back-
                           ground  compilation  is  finished. The -Xbatch flag
                           disables background compilation so that compilation
                           of  all methods proceeds as a foreground task until
                           completed.

       -Xdebug             Start with support for  JVMDI  enabled.  JVMDI  has
                           been  deprecated  and  is not used for debugging in
                           J2SE 5.0, so this option isn't needed for debugging
                           in J2SE 5.0.

       -Xbootclasspath:bootclasspath
                           Specify  a colon-separated list of directories, JAR
                           archives, and ZIP archives to search for boot class
                           files.   These  are used in place of the boot class
                           files included in the Java 2  SDK.  Note:  Applica-
                           tions that use this option for the purpose of over-
                           riding a class in rt.jar should not be deployed  as
                           doing  so would contravene the Java 2 Runtime Envi-
                           ronment binary code license.

       -Xbootclasspath/a:path
                           Specifies a colon-separated  path  of  directories,
                           JAR  archives,  and  ZIP  archives to append to the
                           default bootstrap class path.

       -Xbootclasspath/p:path
                           Specifies a colon-separated  path  of  directories,
                           JAR  archives, and ZIP archives to prepend in front
                           of the default bootstrap class path.  Note:  Appli-
                           cations  that  use  this  option for the purpose of
                           overriding  a  class  in  rt.jar  should   not   be
                           deployed,  as  doing so would contravene the Java 2
                           Runtime Environment binary code license.

       -Xcheck:jni         Perform additional checks for Java Native Interface
                           (JNI)  functions.   Specifically,  the Java Virtual
                           Machine validates the parameters passed to the  JNI
                           function  as  well  as the runtime environment data
                           before processing the JNI request. Any invalid data
                           encountered indicates a problem in the native code,
                           and the Java Virtual Machine will terminate with  a
                           fatal  error  in  such  cases. Expect a performance
                           degradation when this option is used.

       -Xfuture            Performs strict class-file format checks.  For pur-
                           poses  of backwards compatibility, the default for-
                           mat checks performed by the Java  2  SDK's  virtual
                           machine  are  no stricter than the checks performed
                           by 1.1.x versions of the JDK software.   The  -Xfu-
                           ture  flag  turns  on  stricter  class-file  format
                           checks  that  enforce  closer  conformance  to  the
                           class-file  format  specification.   Developers are
                           encouraged to use this  flag  when  developing  new
                           code  because  the  stricter checks will become the
                           default in future releases of the Java  application
                           launcher.

       -Xnoclassgc         Disables class garbage collection

       -Xincgc             Enable   the  incremental  garbage  collector.  The
                           incremental garbage  collector,  which  is  off  by
                           default, will reduce the occasional garbage-collec-
                           tion pauses during program execution. The incremen-
                           tal garbage collector will at times execute concur-
                           rently with the program and during such times  will
                           reduce the processor capacity available to the pro-
                           gram.

       -Xloggc: file       Report on each garbage collection  event,  as  with
                           -verbose:gc,  but  log this data to file.  In addi-
                           tion to the  information  -verbose:gc  gives,  each
                           reported  event  will  be preceeded by the time (in
                           seconds) since the first garbage-collection  event.

                           Always  use a local file system for storage of this
                           file to avoid  stalling  the  JVM  due  to  network
                           latency.   The file may be truncated in the case of
                           a full file system and logging will continue on the
                           truncated  file.  This option overrides -verbose:gc
                           if both are given on the command line.

       -Xmsn               Specifies the initial size of the memory allocation
                           pool.   This  value  must  be  a  multiple  of 1024
                           greater than 1 MB.  Append the letter  k  or  K  to
                           indicate  kilobytes,  the letter m or M to indicate
                           megabytes, the letter g or G to indicate gigabytes,
                           or  the  letter  t or T to indicate terabytes.  The
                           default value is 2MB. Examples:

                           -Xms6291456
                           -Xms6144k
                           -Xms6m

       -Xmxn               Specifies the maximum size, in bytes, of the memory
                           allocation  pool.  This value must be a multiple of
                           1024 greater than 2 MB.  Append the letter k  or  K
                           to  indicate  kilobytes, the letter m or M to indi-
                           cate megabytes, the letter g or G to indicate giga-
                           bytes,  or the letter t or T to indicate terabytes.
                           The default value is 64MB. Examples:

                           -Xmx83886080
                           -Xmx81920k
                           -Xmx80m


                           On Mac OS X platforms, the  upper  limit  for  this
                           value when running in 32-bit mode (-d32) is approx-
                           imately 2100m minus overhead amounts, and  approxi-
                           mately  127t minus overhead amounts when running in
                           64-bit mode (-d64).  On Solaris  7  and  Solaris  8
                           SPARC  platforms, the upper limit for this value is
                           approximately  4000m  minus  overhead  amounts.  On
                           Solaris  2.6  and x86 platforms, the upper limit is
                           approximately  2000m  minus  overhead  amounts.  On
                           Linux  platforms,  the upper limit is approximately
                           2000m minus overhead amounts.

       -Xprof              Profiles the running program, and  sends  profiling
                           data  to  standard output.  This option is provided
                           as a utility that is useful in program  development
                           and  is  not  intended  to be be used in production
                           systems.

       -Xrunhprof[:help][:suboption=value,...]
                           Enables cpu,  heap,  or  monitor  profiling.   This
                           option  is  typically  followed by a list of comma-
                           separated suboption=value pairs.  Run  the  command
                           java -Xrunhprof:help to obtain a list of suboptions
                           and their default values.

       -Xrs                Reduce usage of operating-system  signals  by  Java
                           virtual machine (JVM).

                           In  a previous release, the Shutdown Hooks facility
                           was added to  allow  orderly  shutdown  of  a  Java
                           application.  The  intent was to allow user cleanup
                           code (such as closing database connections) to  run
                           at shutdown, even if the JVM terminates abruptly.

                           Sun's  JVM  catches  signals  to implement shutdown
                           hooks for abnormal JVM termination.  The  JVM  uses
                           SIGHUP, SIGINT, and SIGTERM to initiate the running
                           of shutdown hooks.

                           The JVM uses a similar mechanism to  implement  the
                           pre-1.2 feature of dumping thread stacks for debug-
                           ging purposes. Sun's JVM uses  SIGQUIT  to  perform
                           thread dumps.

                           Applications  that embed the JVM frequently need to
                           trap signals like SIGINT or SIGTERM, which can lead
                           to interference with the JVM's own signal handlers.
                           The  -Xrs  command  line  option  is  available  to
                           address  this  issue.   When  -Xrs is used on Sun's
                           JVM, the signal masks for SIGINT, SIGTERM,  SIGHUP,
                           and  SIGQUIT are not changed by the JVM, and signal
                           handlers for these signals are not installed.

                           There are two consequences of specifying -Xrs:

                           o SIGQUIT thread dumps are not available.

                           o User code is  responsible  for  causing  shutdown
                             hooks   to  run,  for  example  by  calling  Sys-
                             tem.exit() when the JVM is to be terminated.

       -Xssn               Set thread stack size.

       -XX:+UseAltSigs     The VM uses SIGUSR1 and SIGUSR2 by  default,  which
                           can  sometimes conflict with applications that sig-
                           nal-chain SIGUSR1 and SIGUSR2.  The -XX:+UseAltSigs
                           option  will cause the VM to use signals other than
                           SIGUSR1 and SIGUSR2 as the default.

SEE ALSO
       javac(1), jdb(1), javah(1), jar(1),

       See (or search java.sun.com) for the following:

       The Java Extensions Framework @
         http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/guide/extensions/index.html

       Security Features @
         http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/guide/security/index.html



                                 23 June 2004                          java(1)
