jinfo(1)                                                              jinfo(1)



NAME
       jinfo - configuration info

SYNOPSIS
       jinfo [ option ] pid
       jinfo [ option ] executable core
       jinfo [ option ] [ server-id@ ] remote-hostname-or-IP

PARAMETERS
       Options  are mutually exclusive. Option, if used, should follow immedi-
       ately after the command name. See OPTIONS below.

       pid            process id for which the configuration  info  is  to  be
                      printed.  The  process  must be a Java process. To get a
                      list of Java processes running on a machine, jps many be
                      used.

       executable     Java executable from which the core dump was produced.

       core           core  file  for  which  the  configuration info is to be
                      printed.

       remote-hostname-or-IP
                      remote debug server's (see  jsadebugd)  hostname  or  IP
                      address.

       server-id      optional  unique  id, if multiple debug servers are run-
                      ning on the same remote host.

DESCRIPTION
       jinfo prints Java configuration information for a given Java process or
       core file or a remote debug server.  Configuration information includes
       Java System properties and Java virtual machine command line flags.

       NOTE - This utility is unsupported and may or may not be  available  in
       future  versions  of the J2SE SDK.  jinfo is not currently available on
       Windows platforms or on the Linux Itanium platform.

OPTIONS
        <no option>   prints both command line flags as well as System proper-
                      ties name, value pairs

       -flags         prints command line flags as name, value pairs

       -sysprops      prints JavaSystem properties as name, value pairs

       -h             prints a help message

       -help          prints a help message

SEE ALSO
       jps(1) jsadebugd(1)



                                 13 June 2004                         jinfo(1)
