jmap(1)                                                                jmap(1)



NAME
       jmap - memory map

SYNOPSIS
       jmap [ option ] pid
       jmap [ option ] executable core
       jmap [ option ] [ server-id@ ] remote-hostname-or-IP

DESCRIPTION
       jmap prints shared object memory maps or heap memory details of a given
       process or core file or remote debug server.

       NOTE - This utility is unsupported and may or may not be  available  in
       future  versions  of  the J2SE SDK.  jmap is not currently available on
       Windows platforms or on the Linux Itanium platform.

PARAMETERS
       option         Options are mutually exclusive. Option, if used, should-
                      follow immediately after the command name.

       pid            process  id  for  which the memory map is to be printed.
                      The process must be a Java process. To  get  a  list  of
                      Java processes running on a machine, jps may be used.

       executable     Java executable from which the core dump was produced.

       core           core file for which the memory map is to be printed.

       remote-hostname-or-IP
                      remote  debug  server's  (see  jsadebugd) hostname or IP
                      address.

       server-id      optional unique id, if multiple debug servers  are  run-
                      ning on the same remote host.

OPTIONS
        <no option>   When  no  option  is used jmap prints shared object map-
                      pings. For each shared object loaded in the  target  VM,
                      start  address,  the  size  of the mapping, and the full
                      path of the shared object file are printed. This is sim-
                      ilar to the Solaris pmap utility.

       -heap          Prints  a heap summary. GC algorithm used, heap configu-
                      ration and generation wise heap usage are printed.

       -histo         Prints a histogram of the heap.  For  each  Java  class,
                      number of objects, memory size in bytes, and fully qual-
                      ified class names are printed. VM internal  class  names
                      are printed with '*' prefix.

       -permstat      Prints class loader wise statistics of permanent genera-
                      tion of Java heap. For  each  class  loader,  its  name,
                      liveness,  address,  parent class loader, and the number
                      and size of classes it has loaded are printed.

       -h             Prints a help message.

       -help          Prints a help message.

SEE ALSO
       pmap(1) jps(1) jsadebugd(1)



                                 13 June 2004                          jmap(1)
