jps(1)                                                                  jps(1)



NAME
       jps - Java Virtual Machine Process Status Tool

SYNOPSIS
       jps [options] [hostid]

DESCRIPTION
       The  jps  tool  lists  the  instrumented  HotSpot Java Virtual Machines
       (JVMs) on the target system. The tool is limited to reporting  informa-
       tion on JVMs for which it has the access permissions.

       If  jps  is  run  without specifying a hostid, it will look for instru-
       mented JVMs on the local host. If started with a hostid, it  will  look
       for  JVMs on the indicated host, using the specified protocol and port.
       A jstatd process is assumed to be running on the target host.

       The jps command will report the local VM identifier, or lvmid, for each
       instrumented  JVM  found  on the target system. The lvmid is typically,
       but not necessarily, the operating system's process identifier for  the
       JVM  process.  With  no  options, jps will list each Java application's
       lvmid followed by the short form of the application's class name or jar
       file  name. The short form of the class name or JAR file name omits the
       class's package information or the JAR files path information.

       The jps command uses the java launcher to find the class name and argu-
       ments  passed  to  the main method. If the target JVM is started with a
       custom launcher, the class name (or JAR file name) and the arguments to
       the  main  method  will not be available. In this case, the jps command
       will output the string Unknown for the class name or JAR file name  and
       for the arguments to the main method.

       The list of JVMs produced by the jps command may be limited by the per-
       missions granted to the principal running the command. The command will
       only  list the JVMs for which the principle has access rights as deter-
       mined by operating system specific access control mechanisms.

       NOTE - This utility is unsupported and may or may not be  available  in
       future versions of the JDK.  It is not currently available on Widows 98
       and Windows ME platforms.

PARAMETERS
       options        Command-line options.

       hostid         The host identifier of the host for  which  the  process
                      report  should  be  generated.  The  hostid  may include
                      optional components  that  indicate  the  communications
                      protocol, port number, and other implementation specific
                      data.

OPTIONS
       The jps command supports a number of options that modify the output  of
       the  command.   These  options  are subject to change or removal in the
       future.

       -q             Suppress the output of the class name,  JAR  file  name,
                      and  arguments passed to the main method, producing only
                      a list of local VM identifiers.

       -m             Output the arguments passed to the main method. The out-
                      put may be null for embedded JVMs.

       -l             Output  the full package name for the application's main
                      class or the full path name  to  the  application's  JAR
                      file.

       -v             Output the arguments passed to the JVM.

       -V             Output the arguments passed to the JVM through the flags
                      file (the .hotspotrc file or the file specified  by  the
                      -XX:Flags=<filename> argument).

       -Joption       Pass  option  to  the java launcher called by javac. For
                      example,  -J-Xms48m  sets  the  startup  memory  to   48
                      megabytes.  It  is  a  common  convention for -J to pass
                      options to  the  underlying  VM  executing  applications
                      written in Java.

HOST IDENTIFIER
       The  host  identifier,  or hostid is a string that indicates the target
       system. The syntax of the hostid string largely corresponds to the syn-
       tax of a URI:

              [protocol:][[//]hostname][:port][/servername]

       protocol       The  communications protocol. If the protocol is omitted
                      and a hostname is not specified, the default protocol is
                      a  platform  specific, optimized, local protocol. If the
                      protocol is omitted and a hostname  is  specified,  then
                      the default protocol is rmi.

       hostname       A  hostname or IP address indicating the target host. If
                      hostname is omitted, then the target host is  the  local
                      host.

       port           The  default  port  for  communicating  with  the remote
                      server. If the hostname is omitted or the protocol spec-
                      ifies   an  optimized,  local  protocol,  then  port  is
                      ignored. Otherwise, treatment of the port  parameter  is
                      implementation  specific.  For  the default rmi protocol
                      the port indicates the port number for  the  rmiregistry
                      on  the  remote  host.  If port is omitted, and protocol
                      indicates rmi, then the default rmiregistry port  (1099)
                      is used.

       servername     The treatment of this parameter depends on the implemen-
                      tation. For the optimized, local protocol, this field is
                      ignored.  For  the  rmi  protocol,  this  parameter is a
                      string representing the name of the RMI remote object on
                      the  remote  host. See the -n option for the jstatd com-
                      mand.

OUTPUT FORMAT
       The output of the jps command follows the following pattern:

              lvmid [ [ classname | JARfilename | "Unknown"] [ arg* ] [ jvmarg* ] ]

       Where all output tokens are separated  by  white  space.  An  arg  that
       includes  embedded white space will introduce ambiguity when attempting
       to map arguments to their actual positional parameters.

       NOTE- You are advised not to write scripts to parse  jps  output  since
       the  format  may  change  in  future  releases.  If you choose to write
       scripts that parse  jps  output,  expect  to  modify  them  for  future
       releases of this tool.

EXAMPLES
       This section provides examples of the jps command.

       Listing the instrumented JVMs on the local host:

              jps
              18027 Java2Demo.JAR
              18032 jps
              18005 jstat

       Listing the instrumented JVMs on a remote host:

       This  example assumes that the jstat server and either the its internal
       RMI registry or a separate external rmiregistry process are running  on
       the  remote host on the default port (port 1099).  It also assumes that
       the local host has appropriate permissions to access the  remote  host.
       This example also includes the -l option to output the long form of the
       class names or JAR file names.

              jps -l remote.domain
              3002 /opt/j2sdk1.5.0/demo/jfc/Java2D/Java2Demo.JAR
              2857 sun.tools.jstatd.jstatd

       Listing the instrumented JVMs on a remote host with a non-default  port
       for the RMI registry:

       This  example assumes that the jstatd server, with an internal RMI reg-
       istry bound to port 2002, is running on the remote host.  This  example
       also  uses  the  -m  option to include the arguments passed to the main
       method of each of the listed Java applications.

              jps -m remote.domain:2002
              3002 /opt/j2sdk1.5.0/demo/jfc/Java2D/Java2Demo.JAR
              3102 sun.tools.jstatd.jstatd -p 2002

SEE ALSO
       java(1) jstat(1) jstatd(1) rmiregistry(1)



                                 13 June 2004                           jps(1)
