jrunscript(1)                                                    jrunscript(1)



NAME
       jrunscript - command line script shell


SYNOPSIS
       jrunscript [ options ] [ arguments... ]



PARAMETERS
       options
          Options,  if used, should follow immediately after the command name.

       arguments
          Arguments, if used, should follow immediately after options or  com-
          mand name.


DESCRIPTION
       jrunscript  is a command line script shell. jrunscript supports both an
       interactive (read-eval-print) mode and a  batch  (-f  option)  mode  of
       script  execution.  This  is a scripting language independent shell. By
       default, JavaScript is the language used, but the -l option can be used
       to  specify  a  different  language. Through Java to scripting language
       communication, jrunscript supports "exploratory programming" style.


       NOTE: This tool is experimental and may not be available in future ver-
       sions of the JDK.


OPTIONS
       -classpath path
          Specify  where  to find the user's .class files that are accessed by
          the script.

       -cp path
          This is a synonym for -classpath path

       -Dname=value
          Set a Java system property.

       -Jflag
          Pass flag directly to the Java virtual machine on  which  jrunscript
          is run.

       -l language
          Use  the  specified  scripting  language.  By default, JavaScript is
          used. Note that to use other scripting languages, you also  need  to
          specify  the  corresponding  script  engine's  jar file using -cp or
          -classpath option.

       -e script
          Evaluate the given script. This option  can  be  used  to  run  "one
          liner" scripts specified completely on the command line.

       -encoding encoding
          Specify the character encoding used while reading script files.

       -f script-file
          Evaluate the given script file (batch mode).

       -f -
          Read and evaluate a script from standard input (interactive mode).

       -help
          Output help message and exit.

       -?
          Output help message and exit.

       -q
          List all script engines available and exit.


ARGUMENTS
       If  [arguments...]  are present and if no -e or -f option is used, then
       the first argument is the script file and the rest of the arguments, if
       any,  are  passed  as  script  arguments. If [arguments..] and -e or -f
       option are used, then all [arguments..] are passed as script arguments.
       If  [arguments..],  -e  and  -f  are missing, interactive mode is used.
       Script arguments are available to a script in an engine variable  named
       "arguments" of type String array.


EXAMPLES
       Executing inline scripts



          jrunscript -e "print('hello world')"
          jrunscript -e "cat('http://java.sun.com')"


       Use specified language and evaluate given script file



          jrunscript -l js -f test.js


       Interactive mode



          jrunscript
          js>print('hello world');
          hello world
          js>34 + 55
          89
          js> thread(function() { print('hello world'); }
          hello world
          js>


       Run script file with script arguments



          jrunscript test.js arg1 arg2 arg3


       test.js is script file to execute and arg1, arg2 and arg3 are passed to
       script as script arguments. Script can access these  using  "arguments"
       array.

SEE ALSO
       If  JavaScript is used, then before evaluating any user defined script,
       jrunscript initializes certain built-in functions  and  objects.  These
       JavaScript built-ins are documented in jsdocs.







                                  06 Aug 2006                    jrunscript(1)
