
LOCALEDEF(1)              BSD General Commands Manual             LOCALEDEF(1)

NAME
     localedef -- define locale environment

SYNOPSIS
     localedef [-c] [-f charmap] [-i sourcefile] name

DESCRIPTION
     The localedef utility reads source definitions for one or more locale
     categories belonging to the same locale from the file named in the -i
     option (if specified) or from standard input.

     The name operand identifies the target locale. The localedef utility sup-
     ports the creation of public, or generally accessible locales, as well as
     private, or restricted-access locales.

     Each category source definition is identified by the corresponding envi-
     ronment variable name and terminated by an END category-name statement.

           LC_CTYPE     Defines character classification and case conversion.
           LC_COLLATE   Defines collation rules.
           LC_MONETARY  Defines the format and symbols used in formatting of
                        monetary information.
           LC_NUMERIC   Defines the decimal delimiter, grouping, and grouping
                        symbol for non-monetary numeric editing.
           LC_TIME      Defines the format and content of date and time infor-
                        mation.
           LC_MESSAGES  Defines the format and values of affirmative and nega-
                        tive responses.

OPTIONS
     The following options are supported:

     -c       Create permanent output even if warning messages have been
              issued.

     -f charmap
              Specify the pathname of a file containing a mapping of character
              symbols and collating element symbols to actual character encod-
              ings.

     -i sourcefile
              The pathname of a file containing the source definitions. If
              this option is not present, source definitions will be read from
              standard input.

OPERANDS
     The following operand is supported:

     name     Identifies the locale.  If the name contains one or more slash
              characters, name will be interpreted as a pathname where the
              created locale definitions will be stored.  If name does not
              contain any slash characters, the locale will be public.  This
              capability is restricted to users with appropriate privileges.
              (As a consequence of specifying one name, although several cate-
              gories can be processed in one execution, only categories
              belonging to the same locale can be processed.)

ENVIRONMENT
     The following environment variables affect the execution of localedef:

     LANG        Provide a default value for the internationalization vari-
                 ables that are unset or null.  If LANG is unset or null, the
                 corresponding value from the implementation-dependent default
                 locale will be used.  If any of the internationalization
                 variables contains an invalid setting, the utility will
                 behave as if none of the variables had been defined.

     LC_ALL      If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of
                 all the other internationalization variables.

     LC_COLLATE  (This variable has no effect on localedef; the POSIX locale
                 will be used for this category.)

     LC_CTYPE    Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of
                 bytes of text data as characters (for example, single- as
                 opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments and input
                 files).  This variable has no effect on the processing of
                 localedef input data; the POSIX locale is used for this pur-
                 pose, regardless of the value of this variable.

     LC_MESSAGES
                 Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format
                 and contents of diagnostic messages written to standard
                 error.

     NLSPATH     Determine the location of message catalogues for the process-
                 ing of LC_MESSAGES.

EXIT STATUS
     The following exit values are returned:

     0        No errors occurred and the locales were successfully created.

     1        Warnings occurred and the locales were successfully created.

     2        The locale specification exceeded implementation limits or the
              coded character set or sets used were not supported by the
              implementation, and no locale was created.

     >2       Warnings or errors occurred and no output was created.

Darwin                         September 9, 2004                        Darwin
