
mnthome(1)                BSD General Commands Manual               mnthome(1)

NAME
     mnthome -- mount an AFP (AppleShare) home directory with the correct
     privileges

SYNOPSIS
     mnthome [-v] [-d] [-m mntpath] [-n] [-b] [-p password] [-i]
             [-x mount point] [-u] [-s]

DESCRIPTION
     The mnthome command unmounts the AFP (AppleShare) home directory that was
     automounted as guest, and remounts it with the correct privileges by log-
     ging into the AFP server using the current username and password.  This
     command also allows you to have guest access turned off on your AFP
     server too and still have AFP home directories work with "su".

     When you ssh into another computer using an account that has an AFP home
     directory or you "su <netuser>" where <netuser> is an AFP home directory
     user, then the resulting home directory will not have the correct access
     privileges.

     This is because automount is assuming NFS behavior which assumes that all
     computers share the same user/group privileges and mounts volumes using
     "no security" and lets the client enforce privileges based on the current
     user.

     AFP is different since the privileges are based on the user that logged
     into the server.  Since automount does not put up an authentication dia-
     log asking for an user name and password, automount mounts the fileserver
     using guest login.  Thus you end up with getting the world access privi-
     leges and the privileges are shown via "mapping".  You also would have to
     allow guest access to the server to that sharepoint.

     Mapping makes all the files/folders appear like they are owned by the
     current user.  Even those items not really owned by the current user show
     up as being owned by the current user.  The server provides user access
     rights (UARights) which is a summary of what the access rights are
     regardless of the category (owner, group, world) from which they were
     obtained.  When doing "mapping", the AppleShare client will take these
     UARights and show them as the owner rights.  So, everything looks like it
     is owned by the current user and the owner rights are set to the UAR-
     ights.  Thus if you had access to that file/folder before, then you still
     do.

     The options are:

     -v      Display version number.

     -d      Print debugging information.

     -m      Alternative mount point is specified with the -m option followed
             by a path to an existing directory.  Normally, the volume is
             mounted in /Network/Servers/ or /var/automount/Network/Servers/.

     -n      Do not force the unmount of the previous mount point.

     -b      Exec the user's shell after mount of home.

     -p      A password may be specified with the -p option followed by a
             password.  If this option is not used, then the user will be
             prompted to enter in a password.

     -i      Display information about the AFP home mount point.

     -u      Attempt to unmount the current home directory mount.

     -x      This option must be followed by a path to an existing AFP mount
             point.  Display information about the mount point.

     -s      Skip preflight check to see if the currently mounted home direc-
             tory is already correctly mounted for the user.

EXAMPLES
     The following example illustrates how to mount an AFP home directory:

           mnthome

     This example shows how to print the debugging information and provide a
     password:

           mnthome -d -p foobar


SEE ALSO
     mount(2), unmount(2), mount(8) mount_afp(8)

BUGS
     I get the mounting url from the "home_loc" attribute and the mountpath
     from the "home" attribute (with the path from home_loc subtracted out).
     If your AFP home directory automounts in a different location, then you
     need to use the -m option to specify an alternative mount point.

     I cant figure out how to cd out of the current home dir so I can do the
     unmount and then restore the user back into the new home dir.  If you are
     in the AFP home directory when you use mnthome, you automatically get put
     back into that same directory when mnthome leaves.  If mnthome works,
     then your current directory is a dead directory and you need to "cd ~" to
     get to your new home directory.

     If the server with the home directory was already mounted by another
     user, you will not be able to replace it with a mount made by your user
     id.  The original mount must be first unmounted by the mounting user or
     root.

HISTORY
     The mnthome command first appeared Mac OS X version 10.3.

RETURN VALUES
     0                  mnthome successfully remounted the AFP home directory.

     [EINVAL]           Invalid arguements were passed in.

     [EPERM]            The current AFP home directory could not be unmounted
                        by mnthome because the current user does not have the
                        correct access.  The current AFP home directory was
                        probably mounted by another user first.

     [EAUTH]            Incorrect password.

Mac OS X                        August 4, 2004                        Mac OS X
