orbd(1)                                                                orbd(1)



NAME
       orbd - The Object Request Broker Daemon

       orbd  is used to enable clients to transparently locate and invoke per-
       sistent objects on servers in the CORBA environment.

SYNOPSIS
       orbd [ options ]

DESCRIPTION
       The Server Manager included with  the  orbd  tool  is  used  to  enable
       clients to transparently locate and invoke persistent objects on server
       in the CORBA environment.  The persistent servers, while publishing the
       persistent  object  references  in the Naming Service, include the port
       number of the ORBD in the object reference instead of the  port  number
       of  the  Server. The inclusion of ORBD port number in the object refer-
       ence for persistent object references has the following advantages:


       o The object reference in the Naming Service remains
         independent of the server life cycle. For example, the object  refer-
         ence  could  be published by the server in the Naming Service when it
         is first installed, and then independent of how many times the server
         is  started  or  shutdown,  the  ORBD  will always return the correct
         object reference to the invoking client.

       o The client needs to lookup the object reference in
         the Naming Service only once, and can keep  re-using  this  reference
         independent of the chanes introduced due to server life cycle.

       To  access  ORBD's  Server  Manager,  the  server must be started using
       servertool, which is a command-line interface for application  program-
       mers  to  register,  unregister,  startup,  and  shutdown  a persistent
       server. For more information on the Server Manager, see the section  in
       this document titled Server Manager.

REQUIRED OPTIONS
       -ORBInitialPort nameserverport
              Specifies  the  port on which the name server should be started.
              Once started, orbd will listen for  incoming  requests  on  this
              port.  Note  that  when  using Solaris software, you must become
              root to start a process on a port under 1024. For  this  reason,
              we recommend that you use a port number greater than or equal to
              1024. (required)

OTHER OPTIONS
       -port port
              Specifies the activation port where the ORBD should be  started.
              The  default  value  for  this port is 1049. This port number is
              added to the port field of the persistent  Interoperable  Object
              References (IOR). (optional)

       -defaultdb directory
              Specifies  the  base where the ORBD persistent storage directory
              orb.db is created. If this option is not specified, the  default
              value is "./orb.db".  (optional)

       -serverPollingTime milliseconds
              Specifies  how  often the daemon thread checks for the health of
              registered servers. ORBD polls process  health  every  millisec-
              onds.   The  default  value is 1,000 ms (or 1 second). The value
              specified for milliseconds must be a valid integer.

       -serverStartupDelay milliseconds
              Specifies how long the  ServerManager  waits  before  sending  a
              location  forward  exception after the server is restarted. ORBD
              waits for milliseconds before raising a location forward  excep-
              tion.  The  default  value  is 1,000 ms (or 1 second). The value
              specified for milliseconds must be a valid integer.

       -Joption
              Pass option to the Java virtual machine, where option is one  of
              the  options  described on the man page for the java application
              launcher, java(1). For example, -J-Xms48m sets the startup  mem-
              ory  to  48  megabytes. It is a common convention for -J to pass
              options to the underlying virtual machine.

Starting and Stopping the Name Service
       A Naming Service is a CORBA service that allows  CORBA  objects  to  be
       named by means of binding a name to an object reference. The name bind-
       ing may be stored in the naming service, and a client  may  supply  the
       name to obtain the desired object reference.

       Prior  to  running  a  client  or  a  server, you will start ORBD. ORBD
       includes a persistent Naming Service and a  transient  Naming  Service,
       both of which are an implementation of the COS Naming Service.

       o The Persistent Naming Service provides persistence
         for  naming  contexts. This means that this information is persistent
         across service shutdowns and startups,  and  is  recoverable  in  the
         event of a service failure. If ORBD is restarted, the Persistent Nam-
         ing Service will restore the naming context graph, so that the  bind-
         ing of all clients' and servers' names remains intact (persistent).

       o For backward compatibility, tnameserv, a
         Transient  Naming  Service shipped with older versions of the JDK, is
         also included in this release of J2SE.  A  transient  naming  service
         retains  naming contexts as long as it is running. If there is a ser-
         vice interruption, the naming context graph is lost.

       The -ORBInitialPort argument is a required  command-line  argument  for
       orbd,  and  is  used to set the port number on which the Naming Service
       will run.  The following instructions assume you can use port 1050  for
       the Java IDL Object Request Broker Daemon. When using Solaris software,
       you must become root to start a process on a port under 1024. For  this
       reason,  we  recommend that you use a port number greater than or equal
       to 1024. You can substitute a different port if necessary.

       TO start orbd from a UNIX command shell, enterL

            orbd -ORBInitialPort 1050&

       From an MS-DOS system prompt (Windows), enter:

            start orbd -ORBInitialPort 1050

       Now that ORBD is running, you can run your server and  client  applica-
       tions.  When  running  the client and server applications, they must be
       made aware of the port number (and machine name, if  applicable)  where
       the Naming Service is running. One way to do this is to add the follow-
       ing code to your application:

            Properties props = new Properties();
            props.put("org.omg.CORBA.ORBInitialPort", "1050");
            props.put("org.omg.CORBA.ORBInitialHost", "MyHost");
            ORB orb = ORB.init(args, props);

       In this example, the Naming Service is running on  port  1050  on  host
       "MyHost". Another way is to specify the port number and/or machine name
       when running the server or client application from  the  command  line.
       For example, you would start your "HelloApplication" with the following
       command line:

            java HelloApplication -ORBInitialPort 1050 -ORBInitialHost MyHost

       To stop the naming service, use the relevant operating system  command,
       such  as  pkill  orbd  on Solaris, or Ctrl+C in the DOS window in which
       orbd is running. Note that names registered with the naming service may
       disappear when the service is terminated if the naming service is tran-
       sient. The Java IDL naming service will  run  until  it  is  explicitly
       stopped.

       For more information on the Naming Service included with ORBD, see Nam-
       ing Service.

Server Manager
       To access ORBD's Server Manager and run a persistent server, the server
       must be started using servertool, which is a command-line interface for
       application programmers to register, unregister, startup, and  shutdown
       a persistent server. When a server is started using servertool, it must
       be started on the same host and port on which orbd is executing. If the
       server  is run on a different port, the information stored in the data-
       base for local contexts will be invalid and the service will  not  work
       properly.

   Server Manager: an Example
       Using the sample tutorial for our demonstration, you would run the idlj
       compiler and javac compiler as shown in the tutorial. To run the Server
       Manager, follow these steps for running the application:

       1. Start orbd.
              To start orbd from a UNIX command shell, enter:

            orbd -ORBInitialPort 1050

       From an MS-DOS system prompt (Windows), enter:

            start orbd -ORBInitialPort 1050

       Note  that  1050  is the port on which you want the name server to run.
       -ORBInitialPort is a required command-line argument. When using Solaris
       software, you must become root to start a process on a port under 1024.
       For this reason, we recommend that you use a port number  greater  than
       or equal to 1024.

       2. Start the servertool:
              To start the Hello server, enter:

            servertool -ORBInitialPort 1050

       Make  sure  the  name server (orbd) port is the same as in the previous
       step, for example, -ORBInitialPort 1050. The servertool must be started
       on the same port as the name server.

       3. Start the Hello server from the servertool prompt:

            servertool  > register -server HelloServer -classpath .
                           -applicationName HelloServerApName

       The  servertool  registers  the  server,  assigns  it the name of "Hel-
       loServerApName", and displays its server id.

       4. Run the client application from another terminal window or prompt:

            java HelloClient -ORBInitialPort 1050 -ORBInitialHost localhost

       For this example, you can omit -ORBInitialHost localhost since the name
       server  is  running  on  the same host as the Hello client. If the name
       server is running on a different host, use -ORBInitialHost  nameserver-
       host to specify the host on which the IDL name server is running.

       Specify  the  name server (orbd) port as done in the previous step, for
       example, -ORBInitialPort 1050.

       5. When you have finished experimenting with  the  Server  Manager,  be
       sure to shut down or kill the name server (orbd) and servertool.

       To  shut down orbd from a DOS prompt, select the window that is running
       the server and enter Ctrl+C to shut it down. To shut  down  orbdfrom  a
       Unix  shell, find the process, and kill it. The server will continue to
       wait for invocations until it is explicitly stopped.

       To shut down the servertool, type quit and press the Enter key  on  the
       keyboard.

SEE ALSO
       Naming Service, servertool



                                 10 March 2001                         orbd(1)
