pack200(1)                                                          pack200(1)



NAME
       pack200 - JAR Packing tool

SYNOPSIS
       pack200 [ OPTIONS ] output-file JAR-file

PARAMETERS
       The options may be in any order. The last option on the command line or
       in a properties file supersedes all previously specified options. For a
       discussion of the options, see OPTIONS below.

       OPTIONS        see OPTIONS below.

       output-file    name of the output file.

       JAR-file       name of the input file.

DESCRIPTION
       The  pack200 tool is a Java application that transforms a JAR file into
       a compressed pack200 file using the Java  gzip  compressor.   The  com-
       pressed  packed  files  are highly compressed JARs that can be directly
       deployed, saving bandwidth and reducing download time.

       The pack200 tool uses several options to fine-tune and set the compres-
       sion engine.

       Typical usage:

       % pack200 myarchive.pack.gz myarchive.jar

       In  this  example, the myarchive.pack.gz is produced, using the default
       pack200 and gzip settings.

   OPTIONS
       -r --repack
              Produces a JAR file  by  packing  the  file  myarchive.jar,  and
              unpacking it.  The resulting file can be used as an input to the
              jarsigner(1) tool.

              % pack200 --repack myarchive-packed.jar myarchive.jar
              % pack200 --repack myarchive.jar

       -g --no-gzip
              Produces a pack200 file. With this option a suitable  compressor
              must  be used, and the target system must also use a correspond-
              ing decompressor.

              % pack200 --no-gzip myarchive.pack myarchive.jar

       -G --strip-debug
              Strips the attributes used for debugging, from the output. These
              include   SourceFile,  LineNumberTable,  LocalVariableTable  and
              LocalVariableTypeTable.  Removing these attributes  reduces  the
              size of both downloads and installations but reduces the useful-
              ness of debuggers.

       -O --no-keep-file-order
              The packer will reorder and transmit all elements. Additionally,
              the  packer may remove JAR directory names. This will reduce the
              download size; however, certain JAR file optimizations  such  as
              indexing, may not work correctly.

       -Svalue --segment-limit=value
              The  value is the estimated target size N (in bytes) of each ar-
              chive segment. If a single  input  file  requires  more  than  N
              bytes,  it  will  be given its own archive segment. As a special
              case, a value of -1 will produce a single large segment with all
              input  files,  while  a  value of 0 will produce one segment for
              each class. Larger archive segments result in less fragmentation
              and  better  compression, but processing them requires more mem-
              ory.

              The size of each segment is estimated by counting  the  size  of
              each input file to be transmitted in the segment, along with the
              size of its name and other transmitted properties.

              The default is 1000000 (a million bytes). This allows input  JAR
              files of moderate size to be transmitted in one segment. It also
              puts a limit on memory requirements for packers and unpackers.

              A 10MB JAR packed without this limit will typically  pack  about
              10%  smaller,  but  the  packer  may  require a larger Java heap
              (about ten times the segment limit).

       -Evalue --effort=value
              If the value is set to a single decimal digit, the  packer  will
              use  the  indicated amount of effort in compressing the archive.
              Level 1 may produce somewhat larger size and faster  compression
              speed,  while level 9 will take much longer but may produce bet-
              ter compression.  The special value 0 instructs  the  packer  to
              copy  through  the  original JAR file directly, with no compres-
              sion. The JSR 200 standard requires any unpacker  to  understand
              this special case as a pass-through of the entire archive.

              The  default  is 5, investing a modest amount of time to produce
              reasonable compression.

       -Hvalue --deflate-hint=value
              Overrides the default, which preserves  the  input  information,
              but may cause the transmitted archive to be larger.

              The possible values are:

              true

              false
                    In  either  case,  the  packer will set the deflation hint
                    accordingly in the output archive, and will  not  transmit
                    the individual deflation hints of archive elements.
              keep
                    Preserve deflation hints observed in the input JAR.  (This
                    is the default.)

       -mvalue --modification-time=value
              The possible values are:

              latest
                    The packer will attempt to determine the latest  modifica-
                    tion time, among all the available entries in the original
                    archive, or the latest modification time of all the avail-
                    able  entries  in  that segment. This single value will be
                    transmitted as part of the segment and applied to all  the
                    entries  in each segment. This can marginally decrease the
                    transmitted size of the archive at the expense of  setting
                    all installed files to a single date.
              keep
                    Preserve  modification  times  observed  in the input JAR.
                    (This is the default.)

       -Pfile -pass-file=file
              Indicates that a file should be passed through byte-wise with no
              compression.  By  repeating  the  option,  multiple files may be
              specified,.  There is no pathname  transformation,  except  that
              the  system file separator is replaced by the JAR file separator
              '/'. The resulting file names must match exactly as strings with
              their  occurrences in the JAR file. If file is a directory name,
              all files under that directory will be passed.

       -Uaction --unknown-attribute=action
              Overrides the default behavior, ie. the classfile containing the
              unknown  attribute  will  be  passed  through with the specified
              action.

              The possible values for actions are:

              error:
                    The pack200 operation as a whole will fail, with  a  suit-
                    able explanation.
              strip:
                    The  attribute  will  be  dropped.  Note:  removing the VM
                    required attributes may cause Class Loader failures.
              pass:
                    Upon encountering this attribute, the entire class will be
                    transmitted  as  though  it  is  a resource.  (This is the
                    default.)

       -Cattribute-name=layout --class-attribute=attribute-name=action
       -Fattribute-name=layout --field-attribute=attribute-name=action
       -Mattribute-name=layout --method-attribute=attribute-name=action
       -Dattribute-name=layout --code-attribute=attribute-name=action
               With the above four options, the attribute layout can be speci-
               fied  for  a  class  entity,  such  as  Class  attribute, Field
               attribute, Method attribute and Code attribute. The  attribute-
               name  is  the  name  of  the  attribute for which the layout or
               action is being defined.

               The possible values for action are:

               (some layout string)
                    The layout language is defined in the JSR  200  specifica-
                    tion.  For example --class-attribute=SourceFile=RUH.
               error
                    upon  encountering  this  attribute, the pack200 operation
                    will fail, with a suitable explanation.
               strip
                    upon encountering this attribute, the  attribute  will  be
                    removed  from  the  output. Note: removing the VM required
                    attributes may cause Class Loader failures.
               pass
                    upon encountering this attribute, the entire class will be
                    transmitted as though it is a resource.

                    Example --class-attribute=CompilationID=pass,  will  cause
                    the classfile  containing  this  attribute  to  be  passed
                    through, without further action by the packer.

       -fpack.properties --config-file=pack.properties
              A  configuration  file, containing Java properties to initialize
              the packer, may be specified on the command line.

              % pack200 -f pack.properties myarchive.pack.gz myarchive.jar
              % cat pack.properties
              # Generic properties for the packer.
              modification.time=latest
              deflate.hint=false
              keep.file.order=false
              # This option will cause the files bearing new attributes to
              # be reported as an error rather than passed uncompressed.
              unknown.attribute=error
              # Change the segment limit to be unlimited.
              segment.limit=-1


       Non-Standard Options

       -v --verbose        Outputs minimal messages, multiple specification of
                           this option will output more verbose messages.


       -q --quiet          Quiet operation with no messages.


       -lfilename --log-file=filename
                           A log file to output messages.


       -Joption            Passes  option  to  the  Java  launcher  called  by
                           pack200.  For  example,  -J-Xms48m sets the startup
                           memory  to 48 megabytes. Although it does not begin
                           with -X,  it  is not   a   `standard   option'   of
                           pack200.   It is a common convention for -J to pass
                           options to the underlying VM executing applications
                           written in Java.


   EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values are returned:

       0   Successful completion.

       >0  An error occurred.


SEE ALSO
       unpack200(1), jar(1), jarsigner(1), attributes(5)


       For API specification and other related information:
              http://java.sun.com/j2se/5.0/docs
              http://java.sun.com/j2se/5.0/docs/guide/deployment/deployment-
              guide/pack200.html


NOTES:
       This command should not be confused with pack(1). They  are  distinctly
       separate products.

       The  J2SE API Specification provided with the JDK release is the super-
       seding
              authority, in case of discrepancies.



                                 14 July 2004                       pack200(1)
