PERL5161DELTA(1)       Perl Programmers Reference Guide       PERL5161DELTA(1)



NAME
       perl5161delta - what is new for perl v5.16.1

DESCRIPTION
       This document describes differences between the 5.16.0 release and the
       5.16.1 release.

       If you are upgrading from an earlier release such as 5.14.0, first read
       perl5160delta, which describes differences between 5.14.0 and 5.16.0.

Security
   an off-by-two error in Scalar-List-Util has been fixed
       The bugfix was in Scalar-List-Util 1.23_04, and perl 5.16.1 includes
       Scalar-List-Util 1.25.

Incompatible Changes
       There are no changes intentionally incompatible with 5.16.0 If any
       exist, they are bugs, and we request that you submit a report.  See
       "Reporting Bugs" below.

Modules and Pragmata
   Updated Modules and Pragmata
       o   Scalar::Util and List::Util have been upgraded from version 1.23 to
           version 1.25.

       o   B::Deparse has been updated from version 1.14 to 1.14_01.  An
           "uninitialized" warning emitted by B::Deparse has been squashed
           [perl #113464].

Configuration and Compilation
       o   Building perl with some Windows compilers used to fail due to a
           problem with miniperl's "glob" operator (which uses the "perlglob"
           program) deleting the PATH environment variable [perl #113798].

Platform Support
   Platform-Specific Notes
       VMS All C header files from the top-level directory of the distribution
           are now installed on VMS, providing consistency with a long-
           standing practice on other platforms. Previously only a subset were
           installed, which broke non-core extension builds for extensions
           that depended on the missing include files.

Selected Bug Fixes
       o   A regression introduced in Perl v5.16.0 involving
           "tr/SEARCHLIST/REPLACEMENTLIST/" has been fixed.  Only the first
           instance is supposed to be meaningful if a character appears more
           than once in "SEARCHLIST".  Under some circumstances, the final
           instance was overriding all earlier ones.  [perl #113584]

       o   "B::COP::stashlen" has been added.   This provides access to an
           internal field added in perl 5.16 under threaded builds.  It was
           broken at the last minute before 5.16 was released [perl #113034].

       o   The re pragma will no longer clobber $_. [perl #113750]

       o   Unicode 6.1 published an incorrect alias for one of the
           Canonical_Combining_Class property's values (which range between 0
           and 254).  The alias "CCC133" should have been "CCC132".  Perl now
           overrides the data file furnished by Unicode to give the correct
           value.

       o   Duplicating scalar filehandles works again.  [perl #113764]

       o   Under threaded perls, a runtime code block in a regular expression
           could corrupt the package name stored in the op tree, resulting in
           bad reads in "caller", and possibly crashes [perl #113060].

       o   For efficiency's sake, many operators and built-in functions return
           the same scalar each time.  Lvalue subroutines and subroutines in
           the CORE:: namespace were allowing this implementation detail to
           leak through.  "print &CORE::uc("a"), &CORE::uc("b")" used to print
           "BB".  The same thing would happen with an lvalue subroutine
           returning the return value of "uc".  Now the value is copied in
           such cases [perl #113044].

       o   "__SUB__" now works in special blocks ("BEGIN", "END", etc.).

       o   Formats that reference lexical variables from outside no longer
           result in crashes.

Known Problems
       There are no new known problems, but consult "Known Problems" in
       perl5160delta to see those identified in the 5.16.0 release.

Acknowledgements
       Perl 5.16.1 represents approximately 2 months of development since Perl
       5.16.0 and contains approximately 14,000 lines of changes across 96
       files from 8 authors.

       Perl continues to flourish into its third decade thanks to a vibrant
       community of users and developers. The following people are known to
       have contributed the improvements that became Perl 5.16.1:

       Chris 'BinGOs' Williams, Craig A. Berry, Father Chrysostomos, Karl
       Williamson, Paul Johnson, Reini Urban, Ricardo Signes, Tony Cook.

       The list above is almost certainly incomplete as it is automatically
       generated from version control history. In particular, it does not
       include the names of the (very much appreciated) contributors who
       reported issues to the Perl bug tracker.

       Many of the changes included in this version originated in the CPAN
       modules included in Perl's core. We're grateful to the entire CPAN
       community for helping Perl to flourish.

       For a more complete list of all of Perl's historical contributors,
       please see the AUTHORS file in the Perl source distribution.

Reporting Bugs
       If you find what you think is a bug, you might check the articles
       recently posted to the comp.lang.perl.misc newsgroup and the perl bug
       database at http://rt.perl.org/perlbug/ .  There may also be
       information at http://www.perl.org/ , the Perl Home Page.

       If you believe you have an unreported bug, please run the perlbug
       program included with your release.  Be sure to trim your bug down to a
       tiny but sufficient test case.  Your bug report, along with the output
       of "perl -V", will be sent off to perlbug@perl.org to be analysed by
       the Perl porting team.

       If the bug you are reporting has security implications, which make it
       inappropriate to send to a publicly archived mailing list, then please
       send it to perl5-security-report@perl.org. This points to a closed
       subscription unarchived mailing list, which includes all the core
       committers, who will be able to help assess the impact of issues,
       figure out a resolution, and help co-ordinate the release of patches to
       mitigate or fix the problem across all platforms on which Perl is
       supported. Please only use this address for security issues in the Perl
       core, not for modules independently distributed on CPAN.

SEE ALSO
       The Changes file for an explanation of how to view exhaustive details
       on what changed.

       The INSTALL file for how to build Perl.

       The README file for general stuff.

       The Artistic and Copying files for copyright information.



perl v5.16.3                      2013-03-04                  PERL5161DELTA(1)
