PERLVOS(1)             Perl Programmers Reference Guide             PERLVOS(1)



NAME
       perlvos - Perl for Stratus OpenVOS

SYNOPSIS
       This file contains notes for building perl on the Stratus OpenVOS
       operating system.  Perl is a scripting or macro language that is
       popular on many systems.  See perlbook for a number of good books on
       Perl.

       These are instructions for building Perl from source.  This version of
       Perl requires the dynamic linking support that is found in OpenVOS
       Release 17.1 and thus is not supported on OpenVOS Release 17.0 or
       earlier releases.

       If you are running VOS Release 14.4.1 or later, you can obtain a pre-
       compiled, supported copy of perl by purchasing the GNU Tools product
       from Stratus Technologies.

BUILDING PERL FOR OPENVOS
       To build perl from its source code on the Stratus V Series platform you
       must have OpenVOS Release 17.1.0 or later, GNU Tools Release 3.5 or
       later, and the C/POSIX Runtime Libraries.

       Follow the normal instructions for building perl; e.g, enter bash, run
       the Configure script, then use "gmake" to build perl.

INSTALLING PERL IN OPENVOS
       1.  After you have built perl using the Configure script, ensure that
           you have modify and default write permission to ">system>ported"
           and all subdirectories.  Then type

                gmake install

       2.  While there are currently no architecture-specific extensions or
           modules distributed with perl, the following directories can be
           used to hold such files (replace the string VERSION by the
           appropriate version number):

                >system>ported>lib>perl5>VERSION>i786

       3.  Site-specific perl extensions and modules can be installed in one
           of two places.  Put architecture-independent files into:

                >system>ported>lib>perl5>site_perl>VERSION

           Put site-specific architecture-dependent files into one of the
           following directories:

                >system>ported>lib>perl5>site_perl>VERSION>i786

       4.  You can examine the @INC variable from within a perl program to see
           the order in which Perl searches these directories.

USING PERL IN OPENVOS
   Restrictions of Perl on OpenVOS
       This port of Perl version 5 prefers Unix-style, slash-separated
       pathnames over OpenVOS-style greater-than-separated pathnames.
       OpenVOS-style pathnames should work in most contexts, but if you have
       trouble, replace all greater-than characters by slash characters.
       Because the slash character is used as a pathname delimiter, Perl
       cannot process OpenVOS pathnames containing a slash character in a
       directory or file name; these must be renamed.

       This port of Perl also uses Unix-epoch date values internally.  As long
       as you are dealing with ASCII character string representations of
       dates, this should not be an issue.  The supported epoch is January 1,
       1980 to January 17, 2038.

       See the file pod/perlport.pod for more information about the OpenVOS
       port of Perl.

TEST STATUS
       A number of the perl self-tests fails for various reasons; generally
       these are minor and due to subtle differences between common POSIX-
       based environments and the OpenVOS POSIX environment.  Ensure that you
       conduct sufficient testing of your code to guarantee that it works
       properly in the OpenVOS environment.

SUPPORT STATUS
       I'm offering this port "as is".  You can ask me questions, but I can't
       guarantee I'll be able to answer them.  There are some excellent books
       available on the Perl language; consult a book seller.

       If you want a supported version of perl for OpenVOS, purchase the
       OpenVOS GNU Tools product from Stratus Technologies, along with a
       support contract (or from anyone else who will sell you support).

AUTHOR
       Paul Green (Paul.Green@stratus.com)

LAST UPDATE
       February 28, 2013



perl v5.18.2                      2013-11-04                        PERLVOS(1)
