PERL5162DELTA(1)       Perl Programmers Reference Guide       PERL5162DELTA(1)



NAME
       perl5162delta - what is new for perl v5.16.2

DESCRIPTION
       This document describes differences between the 5.16.1 release and the
       5.16.2 release.

       If you are upgrading from an earlier release such as 5.16.0, first read
       perl5161delta, which describes differences between 5.16.0 and 5.16.1.

Incompatible Changes
       There are no changes intentionally incompatible with 5.16.0 If any
       exist, they are bugs, and we request that you submit a report.  See
       "Reporting Bugs" below.

Modules and Pragmata
   Updated Modules and Pragmata
       o   Module::CoreList has been upgraded from version 2.70 to version
           2.76.

Configuration and Compilation
       o   configuration should no longer be confused by ls colorization

Platform Support
   Platform-Specific Notes
       AIX Configure now always adds -qlanglvl=extc99 to the CC flags on AIX
           when using xlC.  This will make it easier to compile a number of
           XS-based modules that assume C99 [perl #113778].

Selected Bug Fixes
       o   fix /\h/ equivalence with /[\h]/

           see [perl #114220]

Known Problems
       There are no new known problems.

Acknowledgements
       Perl 5.16.2 represents approximately 2 months of development since Perl
       5.16.1 and contains approximately 740 lines of changes across 20 files
       from 9 authors.

       Perl continues to flourish into its third decade thanks to a vibrant
       community of users and developers. The following people are known to
       have contributed the improvements that became Perl 5.16.2:

       Andy Dougherty, Craig A. Berry, Darin McBride, Dominic Hargreaves,
       Karen Etheridge, Karl Williamson, Peter Martini, Ricardo Signes, Tony
       Cook.

       The list above is almost certainly incomplete as it is automatically
       generated from version control history. In particular, it does not
       include the names of the (very much appreciated) contributors who
       reported issues to the Perl bug tracker.

       For a more complete list of all of Perl's historical contributors,
       please see the AUTHORS file in the Perl source distribution.

Reporting Bugs
       If you find what you think is a bug, you might check the articles
       recently posted to the comp.lang.perl.misc newsgroup and the perl bug
       database at http://rt.perl.org/perlbug/ .  There may also be
       information at http://www.perl.org/ , the Perl Home Page.

       If you believe you have an unreported bug, please run the perlbug
       program included with your release.  Be sure to trim your bug down to a
       tiny but sufficient test case.  Your bug report, along with the output
       of "perl -V", will be sent off to perlbug@perl.org to be analysed by
       the Perl porting team.

       If the bug you are reporting has security implications, which make it
       inappropriate to send to a publicly archived mailing list, then please
       send it to perl5-security-report@perl.org. This points to a closed
       subscription unarchived mailing list, which includes all the core
       committers, who will be able to help assess the impact of issues,
       figure out a resolution, and help co-ordinate the release of patches to
       mitigate or fix the problem across all platforms on which Perl is
       supported. Please only use this address for security issues in the Perl
       core, not for modules independently distributed on CPAN.

SEE ALSO
       The Changes file for an explanation of how to view exhaustive details
       on what changed.

       The INSTALL file for how to build Perl.

       The README file for general stuff.

       The Artistic and Copying files for copyright information.



perl v5.18.2                      2013-11-04                  PERL5162DELTA(1)
