PERL5143DELTA(1)       Perl Programmers Reference Guide       PERL5143DELTA(1)



NAME
       perl5143delta - what is new for perl v5.14.3

DESCRIPTION
       This document describes differences between the 5.14.2 release and the
       5.14.3 release.

       If you are upgrading from an earlier release such as 5.12.0, first read
       perl5140delta, which describes differences between 5.12.0 and 5.14.0.

Core Enhancements
       No changes since 5.14.0.

Security
   "Digest" unsafe use of eval (CVE-2011-3597)
       The "Digest->new()" function did not properly sanitize input before
       using it in an eval() call, which could lead to the injection of
       arbitrary Perl code.

       In order to exploit this flaw, the attacker would need to be able to
       set the algorithm name used, or be able to execute arbitrary Perl code
       already.

       This problem has been fixed.

   Heap buffer overrun in 'x' string repeat operator (CVE-2012-5195)
       Poorly written perl code that allows an attacker to specify the count
       to perl's 'x' string repeat operator can already cause a memory
       exhaustion denial-of-service attack. A flaw in versions of perl before
       5.15.5 can escalate that into a heap buffer overrun; coupled with
       versions of glibc before 2.16, it possibly allows the execution of
       arbitrary code.

       This problem has been fixed.

Incompatible Changes
       There are no changes intentionally incompatible with 5.14.0. If any
       exist, they are bugs and reports are welcome.

Deprecations
       There have been no deprecations since 5.14.0.

Modules and Pragmata
   New Modules and Pragmata
       None

   Updated Modules and Pragmata
       o   PerlIO::scalar was updated to fix a bug in which opening a
           filehandle to a glob copy caused assertion failures (under
           debugging) or hangs or other erratic behaviour without debugging.

       o   ODBM_File and NDBM_File were updated to allow building on GNU/Hurd.

       o   IPC::Open3 has been updated to fix a regression introduced in perl
           5.12, which broke "IPC::Open3::open3($in, $out, $err, '-')".  [perl
           #95748]

       o   Digest has been upgraded from version 1.16 to 1.16_01.

           See "Security".

       o   Module::CoreList has been updated to version 2.49_04 to add data
           for this release.

   Removed Modules and Pragmata
       None

Documentation
   New Documentation
       None

   Changes to Existing Documentation
       perlcheat

       o   perlcheat was updated to 5.14.

Configuration and Compilation
       o   h2ph was updated to search correctly gcc include directories on
           platforms such as Debian with multi-architecture support.

       o   In Configure, the test for procselfexe was refactored into a loop.

Platform Support
   New Platforms
       None

   Discontinued Platforms
       None

   Platform-Specific Notes
       FreeBSD
           The FreeBSD hints file was corrected to be compatible with FreeBSD
           10.0.

       Solaris and NetBSD
           Configure was updated for "procselfexe" support on Solaris and
           NetBSD.

       HP-UX
           README.hpux was updated to note the existence of a broken header in
           HP-UX 11.00.

       Linux
           libutil is no longer used when compiling on Linux platforms, which
           avoids warnings being emitted.

           The system gcc (rather than any other gcc which might be in the
           compiling user's path) is now used when searching for libraries
           such as "-lm".

       Mac OS X
           The locale tests were updated to reflect the behaviour of locales
           in Mountain Lion.

       GNU/Hurd
           Various build and test fixes were included for GNU/Hurd.

           LFS support was enabled in GNU/Hurd.

       NetBSD
           The NetBSD hints file was corrected to be compatible with NetBSD
           6.*

Bug Fixes
       o   A regression has been fixed that was introduced in 5.14, in "/i"
           regular expression matching, in which a match improperly fails if
           the pattern is in UTF-8, the target string is not, and a Latin-1
           character precedes a character in the string that should match the
           pattern.  [perl #101710]

       o   In case-insensitive regular expression pattern matching, no longer
           on UTF-8 encoded strings does the scan for the start of match only
           look at the first possible position.  This caused matches such as
           ""f\x{FB00}" =~ /ff/i" to fail.

       o   The sitecustomize support was made relocatableinc aware, so that
           -Dusesitecustomize and -Duserelocatableinc may be used together.

       o   The smartmatch operator ("~~") was changed so that the right-hand
           side takes precedence during "Any ~~ Object" operations.

       o   A bug has been fixed in the tainting support, in which an "index()"
           operation on a tainted constant would cause all other constants to
           become tainted.  [perl #64804]

       o   A regression has been fixed that was introduced in perl 5.12,
           whereby tainting errors were not correctly propagated through
           "die()".  [perl #111654]

       o   A regression has been fixed that was introduced in perl 5.14, in
           which "/[[:lower:]]/i" and "/[[:upper:]]/i" no longer matched the
           opposite case.  [perl #101970]

Acknowledgements
       Perl 5.14.3 represents approximately 12 months of development since
       Perl 5.14.2 and contains approximately 2,300 lines of changes across 64
       files from 22 authors.

       Perl continues to flourish into its third decade thanks to a vibrant
       community of users and developers. The following people are known to
       have contributed the improvements that became Perl 5.14.3:

       Abigail, Andy Dougherty, Carl Hayter, Chris 'BinGOs' Williams, Dave
       Rolsky, David Mitchell, Dominic Hargreaves, Father Chrysostomos,
       Florian Ragwitz, H.Merijn Brand, Jilles Tjoelker, Karl Williamson, Leon
       Timmermans, Michael G Schwern, Nicholas Clark, Niko Tyni, Pino Toscano,
       Ricardo Signes, Salvador Fandin~o, Samuel Thibault, Steve Hay, Tony
       Cook.

       The list above is almost certainly incomplete as it is automatically
       generated from version control history. In particular, it does not
       include the names of the (very much appreciated) contributors who
       reported issues to the Perl bug tracker.

       Many of the changes included in this version originated in the CPAN
       modules included in Perl's core. We're grateful to the entire CPAN
       community for helping Perl to flourish.

       For a more complete list of all of Perl's historical contributors,
       please see the AUTHORS file in the Perl source distribution.

Reporting Bugs
       If you find what you think is a bug, you might check the articles
       recently posted to the comp.lang.perl.misc newsgroup and the perl bug
       database at http://rt.perl.org/perlbug/ .  There may also be
       information at http://www.perl.org/ , the Perl Home Page.

       If you believe you have an unreported bug, please run the perlbug
       program included with your release.  Be sure to trim your bug down to a
       tiny but sufficient test case.  Your bug report, along with the output
       of "perl -V", will be sent off to perlbug@perl.org to be analysed by
       the Perl porting team.

       If the bug you are reporting has security implications, which make it
       inappropriate to send to a publicly archived mailing list, then please
       send it to perl5-security-report@perl.org. This points to a closed
       subscription unarchived mailing list, which includes all the core
       committers, who be able to help assess the impact of issues, figure out
       a resolution, and help co-ordinate the release of patches to mitigate
       or fix the problem across all platforms on which Perl is supported.
       Please only use this address for security issues in the Perl core, not
       for modules independently distributed on CPAN.

SEE ALSO
       The Changes file for an explanation of how to view exhaustive details
       on what changed.

       The INSTALL file for how to build Perl.

       The README file for general stuff.

       The Artistic and Copying files for copyright information.



perl v5.18.2                      2013-11-04                  PERL5143DELTA(1)
