PERL5124DELTA(1)       Perl Programmers Reference Guide       PERL5124DELTA(1)



NAME
       perl5124delta - what is new for perl v5.12.4

DESCRIPTION
       This document describes differences between the 5.12.3 release and the
       5.12.4 release.

       If you are upgrading from an earlier release such as 5.12.2, first read
       perl5123delta, which describes differences between 5.12.2 and 5.12.3.
       The major changes made in 5.12.0 are described in perl5120delta.

Incompatible Changes
       There are no changes intentionally incompatible with 5.12.3. If any
       exist, they are bugs and reports are welcome.

Selected Bug Fixes
       When strict "refs" mode is off, "%{...}" in rvalue context returns
       "undef" if its argument is undefined.  An optimisation introduced in
       Perl 5.12.0 to make "keys %{...}" faster when used as a boolean did not
       take this into account, causing "keys %{+undef}" (and "keys %$foo" when
       $foo is undefined) to be an error, which it should be so in strict mode
       only [perl #81750].

       "lc", "uc", "lcfirst", and "ucfirst" no longer return untainted strings
       when the argument is tainted. This has been broken since perl 5.8.9
       [perl #87336].

       Fixed a case where it was possible that a freed buffer may have been
       read from when parsing a here document.

Modules and Pragmata
       Module::CoreList has been upgraded from version 2.43 to 2.50.

Testing
       The cpan/CGI/t/http.t test script has been fixed to work when the
       environment has HTTPS_* environment variables, such as HTTPS_PROXY.

Documentation
       Updated the documentation for rand() in perlfunc to note that it is not
       cryptographically secure.

Platform Specific Notes
       Linux
           Support Ubuntu 11.04's new multi-arch library layout.

Acknowledgements
       Perl 5.12.4 represents approximately 5 months of development since Perl
       5.12.3 and contains approximately 200 lines of changes across 11 files
       from 8 authors.

       Perl continues to flourish into its third decade thanks to a vibrant
       community of users and developers.  The following people are known to
       have contributed the improvements that became Perl 5.12.4:

       Andy Dougherty, David Golden, David Leadbeater, Father Chrysostomos,
       Florian Ragwitz, Jesse Vincent, Leon Brocard, Zsban Ambrus.

Reporting Bugs
       If you find what you think is a bug, you might check the articles
       recently posted to the comp.lang.perl.misc newsgroup and the perl bug
       database at http://rt.perl.org/perlbug/ .  There may also be
       information at http://www.perl.org/ , the Perl Home Page.

       If you believe you have an unreported bug, please run the perlbug
       program included with your release.  Be sure to trim your bug down to a
       tiny but sufficient test case.  Your bug report, along with the output
       of "perl -V", will be sent off to perlbug@perl.org to be analysed by
       the Perl porting team.

       If the bug you are reporting has security implications, which make it
       inappropriate to send to a publicly archived mailing list, then please
       send it to perl5-security-report@perl.org. This points to a closed
       subscription unarchived mailing list, which includes all the core
       committers, who be able to help assess the impact of issues, figure out
       a resolution, and help co-ordinate the release of patches to mitigate
       or fix the problem across all platforms on which Perl is supported.
       Please only use this address for security issues in the Perl core, not
       for modules independently distributed on CPAN.

SEE ALSO
       The Changes file for an explanation of how to view exhaustive details
       on what changed.

       The INSTALL file for how to build Perl.

       The README file for general stuff.

       The Artistic and Copying files for copyright information.



perl v5.16.3                      2013-02-26                  PERL5124DELTA(1)
