PIC2GRAPH(1)                                                      PIC2GRAPH(1)



NAME
       pic2graph - convert a PIC diagram into a cropped image

SYNOPSIS
       pic2graph [ -unsafe ] [ -format fmt ] [ -eqn delim ]

DESCRIPTION
       Reads  a  PIC  program  as input; produces an image file (by default in
       Portable Network Graphics format) suitable for the Web as output.  Also
       translates  eqn(1)  constructs, so it can be used for generating images
       of mathematical formulae.

       PIC is a rather expressive graphics minilanguage suitable for producing
       box-and-arrow  diagrams of the kind frequently used in technical papers
       and textbooks.  The language is sufficiently flexible to be quite  use-
       ful  for  state charts, Petri-net diagrams, flow charts, simple circuit
       schematics, jumper layouts, and other kinds of  illustration  involving
       repetitive  uses  of  simple  geometric forms and splines.  Because PIC
       descriptions are procedural and object-based, they are both compact and
       easy to modify.

       The PIC language is fully documented in "Making Pictures With GNU PIC",
       a document which is part of the groff(1) distribution.

       Your input PIC code should not be wrapped with the .PS and  .PE  macros
       that normally guard it within groff(1) macros.

       The output image will be a black-on-white graphic clipped to the small-
       est possible bounding box that contains all the black pixels.  By spec-
       ifying  command-line options to be passed to convert(1) you can give it
       a border, set the background transparent, set the  image's  pixel  den-
       sity, or perform other useful transformations.

       This  program uses pic(1), eqn(1), groff(1), gs(1), and the ImageMagick
       convert(1) program.  These programs must be installed  on  your  system
       and accessible on your $PATH for pic2graph to work.

OPTIONS
       -unsafe
              Run  pic(1)  and  groff(1) in the `unsafe' mode enabling the PIC
              macro sh to execute arbitrary commands.  The default is to  for-
              bid this.

       -format fmt
              Specify  an  output format; the default is PNG (Portable Network
              Graphics).  Any format that convert(1) can emit is supported.

       -eqn delim
              Change the fencepost characters that delimit  eqn(1)  directives
              ($ and $, by default).  This option requires an argument, but an
              empty string is accepted as a directive to disable  eqn(1)  pro-
              cessing.

       Command-line switches and arguments not listed above are passed to con-
       vert(1).

FILES
       /usr/share/groff/1.19.2/tmac/eqnrc  The eqn(1) initialization file.

ENVIRONMENT
       GROFF_TMPDIR
              The directory in which temporary files will be created.  If this
              is  not set pic2graph searches the environment variables TMPDIR,
              TMP, and TEMP (in that order).  Otherwise, temporary files  will
              be created in /tmp.

SEE ALSO
       eqn2graph(1),  grap2graph(1),  pic(1),  eqn(1),  groff(1),  gs(1), con-
       vert(1).

AUTHOR
       Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>, based on  a  recipe  by  W.  Richard
       Stevens.



Groff Version 1.19.2            27 October 2003                   PIC2GRAPH(1)
