
pkgutil(1)                BSD General Commands Manual               pkgutil(1)

NAME
     pkgutil -- Query and manipulate Mac OS X Installer packages and receipts.

SYNOPSIS
     pkgutil [options] [commands]

DESCRIPTION
     pkgutil reads and manipulates Mac OS X Installer flat packages, and pro-
     vides access to the ``receipt'' database used by the Installer. Options
     are processed first, and affect the operation of all commands. Multiple
     commands are performed sequentially in the given order.

     The files and directories where receipts are stored are subject to
     change. Always use pkgutil to query or modify them.

OPTIONS
     --help, -h  A brief summary of commands and usage.

     --force, -f
                 Don't ask for confirmation before performing a potentially
                 destructive or ambiguous operation.

     --verbose, -v
                 Output in a "human-readable" format with extra headers, foot-
                 ers, indentation, and other contextual information.

     --volume path
                 Perform all operations on the specified volume or home direc-
                 tory.  The root volume '/' will be used if unspecified.

     --edit-pkg package-id
                 Specifies an existing receipt to be modified in-place by
                 --learn.

     --only-files
                 List only files (not directories) in --files listing.

     --only-dirs
                 List only directories (not files) in --files listing.

     --regexp    Try to match package-id arguments as a regular expression if
                 an exact match isn't found. See egrep(1) and re_format(7) for
                 syntax.

RECEIPT DATABASE COMMANDS
     --packages, --pkgs
                 List all installed package IDs on the specified --volume.

     --pkgs-plist
                 List all installed package IDs on the specified --volume in
                 Mac OS X plist(5) format.

     --pkgs=REGEXP
                 List all installed package IDs matching REGEXP on the speci-
                 fied --volume.  The equal sign (=) is required or the search
                 string will be ignored and all package IDs will be returned.
                 Be mindful of escaping characters in both your shell and the
                 regular expression.  (Eg, 'pkgutil --pkgs=\\.D' searches for
                 package IDs matching the literal '.D' after escaping the
                 backslash from your shell and then the dot from the regex to
                 make it literal.) Regular expressions are more complex than
                 simple shell globbing. A dot (.) matches any character, while
                 '*' matches zero or more of the previous character. See
                 re_format(7) for a complete description of the syntax.

     --files package-id
                 List all of the files installed under the package-id.

     --export-plist package-id
                 Print all receipt information about the specified package-id
                 in the standard Mac OS X plist(5) format.

     --verify package-id
                 Run repair_packages(8) to verify the specified package-id.

     --repair package-id
                 Run repair_packages(8) to repair the specified package-id.

     --pkg-info package-id
                 Print extended information about the specified package-id.

     --pkg-info-plist package-id
                 Print extended information about the specified package-id in
                 Mac OS X plist(5) format.

     --forget package-id
                 Discard all receipt data about package-id, but do not touch
                 the installed files.  DO NOT use this command from an
                 installer package script to fix broken package design.

     --learn path
                 Update the ACLs of the given path in the receipt identified
                 by --edit-pkg.  This affects subsequent repair operations on
                 the package. This command cannot be used from package postin-
                 stall scripts, but if a postinstall script changes the ACLs
                 on the installed files, the receipt is automatically be
                 updated to reflect those changes.  This command will not
                 update the filesystem permissions in the receipt.

     --pkg-groups package-id
                 List all of the package groups this package-id is a member
                 of.

     --groups    List all of the package groups on the specified --volume.

     --groups-plist
                 List all of the package groups on the specified --volume in
                 Mac OS X plist(5) format.

     --group-pkgs group-id
                 List all of the packages that are members of this group-id.

     --file-info path
                 Show the metadata known about path.

     --file-info-plist path
                 Show the metadata known about path in Mac OS X plist(5) for-
                 mat.

FILE COMMANDS
     --expand pkg-path dir-path
                 Expand the flat package at pkg-path into a new directory
                 specified by dir-path.

     --flatten dir-path pkg-path
                 Flatten the dir-path into a new flat package created at
                 pkg-path.  The directory to be flattened must have the proper
                 contents and layout for a flat package.  This is not intended
                 as a substitute for pkgbuild(1).

     --bom path  Extract any BOM files from the flat pkg at path into /tmp and
                 return the filename(s).  Suggested use is as an argument to
                 lsbom(8).  Eg, "lsbom `pkgutil --bom path`". Note that some
                 flat package archives may contain no BOM, one BOM, or several
                 BOMs.

     --payload-files path
                 List the files archived within the payload of the uninstalled
                 flat package(s) contained at path.  This should be equivilant
                 to "lsbom -s `pkgutil --bom path`". Note that flat package
                 archives may contain more than one package, and the destina-
                 tion location for the uninstalled package(s) is unknown to
                 this command.

     --check-signature pkg-path
                 Check the validity and trust of the signature on the package
                 at pkg-path.  In addition to the status of the signature, the
                 associated certificate chain will be shown.

SEE ALSO
     installer(8)
     repair_packages(8)
     pkgbuild(1)
     productbuild(1)

Mac OS                           March 2, 2011                          Mac OS
