policytool(1)                                                    policytool(1)



NAME
       policytool - policy file creation and management tool

SYNOPSIS
       policytool

DESCRIPTION
       The  policy for a Java runtime (specifying which permissions are avail-
       able for code from various sources, when executing as  various  princi-
       pals) is represented by a Policy object. The default Policy implementa-
       tion obtains its information from  static  ASCII  policy  configuration
       files.

       A  policy  file  can  be  composed via a simple text editor, or via the
       graphical Policy Tool utility described here.  Using  the  Policy  Tool
       saves  typing and eliminates the need for you to know the required pol-
       icy file syntax thus reducing errors.


   Starting Policy Tool
       To start Policy Tool, simply type the following at the command line.

              policytool

       This brings up the "Policy Tool" window.

       Whenever Policy Tool is started, it tries to fill in this  window  with
       policy information from what is sometimes referred to as the "user pol-
       icy file". The user policy file is by default a file named .java.policy
       in  your  home  directory.  If  Policy Tool cannot find the user policy
       file, it reports the situation and displays a blank "Policy Tool"  win-
       dow (that is, a window with headings and buttons but no data in it).

       You  can  then  proceed to either open whatever policy file you want to
       work on or create a new policy file, by adding policy entries,  option-
       ally specifying a keystore, and saving the file).

       The first time you run the Policy Tool, there will not be a user policy
       file (unless you created one manually).

   Creating a new Policy File
       To create a new policy file, start by simply selecting the New  command
       from  the File menu. This will close the currently open policy file (if
       any, after first prompting you to save it if needed) and bring up a new
       policy  tool window, that is, a window with headings and buttons but no
       data in it.

       Please Note: this is not necessary the first time you  run  the  Policy
       Tool. Since the tool tries to open the user policy file and one doesn't
       exist yet (unless it was created manually), the tool will  bring  up  a
       window without any data in it.

       Once  you have a new policy tool window, you can then create the policy
       entries, and specify the keystore (if any of the policy entries specify
       a keystore alias). At any point, you can save the policy file.

   Opening a Different Policy File
       To  work on a different policy file than the one currently being worked
       on (if any), use the Open command in the File menu.

       This will close the currently open policy file  (if  any,  after  first
       prompting  you  to save it if needed) and will present you with an Open
       dialog, which you can use to navigate the directory structure until you
       get  to  the  directory containing the policy file you want to work on.
       Select that file, then select the OK button.

       The "Policy Tool" window will then be filled in with  information  from
       the  policy  file, including the policy file name, the keystore URL (if
       any), and the CodeBase, SignedBy and Principal  parts  of  each  policy
       entry in the policy file.

   Specifying the Keystore
       To  specify the keystore containing the key information for the aliases
       specified in the SignedBy parts of policy entries,  select  the  Change
       Keystore command in the Edit menu.

       This  brings  up a dialog box in which you specify the new keystore URL
       and optionally the keystore type.

       As an example, to  specify  the  keystore  named  "mykeystore"  in  the
       /tests/  directory,  type  the  following  file:  URL into the text box
       labeled "New KeyStore URL".

              file:/tests/mykeystore

       To also specify that the keystore type is "JKS" (the  proprietary  key-
       store  type supported by Sun Microsystems), type the following into the
       text box labeled "New KeyStore Type".

              JKS

       When you are done specifying the keystore URL and type (if any), select
       OK  (or  you  can select Cancel to cancel the operation). If you didn't
       cancel, the text box labeled "Keystore:" is now filled in with the key-
       store URL and type.

   Adding a New Policy Entry
       To  add  a  new policy entry, select the Add Policy Entry button in the
       main "Policy Tool" window. This brings up a "Policy Entry" dialog  box.

       Using this dialog box, you specify

       o      an optional CodeBase entry indicating the URL location where the
              code originates from. For example, to  indicate  code  from  the
              local  /JavaSoft/TESTS/  directory,  type the following file URL
              into the CodeBase text box:

              file:/JavaSoft/TESTS

       o      an optional SignedBy entry indicating the alias  name  from  the
              keystore used to reference the signer whose private key was used
              to sign the code. For  example,  to  indicate  the  alias  named
              "duke", simply type the following into the SignedBy text box:

              duke

       o      an  optional  Principals entry indicating the list of principals
              that the code has to be executed as in  order  for  the  permis-
              sion(s) to be granted. See Adding a New Principal.

       o      one  or more permission entries indicating which permissions are
              granted to the code from the source indicated  by  the  CodeBase
              and SignedBy values (or to any code if no such values are speci-
              fied) when running as the specified principals in the Principals
              list. See Adding a New Permission.


   Editing a Policy Entry
       To edit an existing policy entry, select the line for that entry in the
       main "Policy Tool" window, then select the Edit  Policy  Entry  button.
       Alternatively, you can simply double-click the line for that entry.

       This  brings  up  the same type of "Policy Entry" dialog box as appears
       when you are adding a new policy entry, except in this case the  dialog
       box  is filled in with the existing policy entry information. To change
       the information, simply retype it (for the CodeBase and  SignedBy  val-
       ues) or use the buttons (for the Principals and Permissions values).

       When you are done, select the Done button (or Cancel to cancel).

   Removing a Policy Entry
       To delete a policy entry from the policy file, select the line for that
       entry in the main "Policy Tool" window, then select the  Remove  Policy
       Entry button.

       The  complete policy entry is displayed, and you can then either select
       OK to remove the entry, or Cancel to keep it.

   Saving the Policy File
       To save changes to an existing policy file, simply select the Save com-
       mand in the File menu.

       To  save a new policy file you've been creating, or to copy an existing
       policy file to a new policy file with a different name, select the Save
       As command from the File menu. This brings up the Save As dialog box.

       Navigate  the  directory structure to get to the directory in which you
       want to save the policy file. Type the desired file name,  then  select
       the  OK button. The policy file is now saved, and its name and path are
       shown in the text box labeled "Policy File:"

   Exiting the Policy Tool
       To exit Policy Tool, select the Exit command from the File menu.

   Viewing the Warning Log
       If Policy Tool ever reports that warnings have been stored in the Warn-
       ing Log, you can view the log by selecting the View Warning Log command
       in the Edit menu.

       For example, if you have a policy file with a Keystore URL specifying a
       keystore that doesn't yet exist, you will get such a warning at various
       times, e.g., when you open the file. You can continue to  work  on  the
       policy file even if warnings exist.

SEE ALSO
       http://rhea.sfbay:91/j2se/1.5.0/docs/guide/security/permissions.html
       http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5/docs/tooldocs/solaris/policytool.html
       http://rhea.sfbay:91/j2se/1.5.0/docs/tooldocs/solaris/keytool.html



                                 24 June 2004                    policytool(1)
