POSTLOG(1)                                                          POSTLOG(1)



NAME
       postlog - Postfix-compatible logging utility

SYNOPSIS
       postlog [-iv] [-c config_dir] [-p priority] [-t tag] [text...]

DESCRIPTION
       The  postlog(1)  command implements a Postfix-compatible logging inter-
       face for use in, for example, shell scripts.

       By default, postlog(1) logs the text given on the command line  as  one
       record.  If  no text is specified on the command line, postlog(1) reads
       from standard input and logs each input line as one record.

       Logging is sent to syslogd(8); when the standard error stream  is  con-
       nected to a terminal, logging is sent there as well.

       The following options are implemented:

       -c config_dir
              Read  the  main.cf  configuration  file  in  the named directory
              instead of the default configuration directory.

       -i     Include the process ID in the logging tag.

       -p priority
              Specifies the logging severity:  info  (default),  warn,  error,
              fatal, or panic.

       -t tag Specifies  the  logging  tag, that is, the identifying name that
              appears at the beginning of each logging record. A  default  tag
              is used when none is specified.

       -v     Enable  verbose  logging  for  debugging  purposes.  Multiple -v
              options make the software increasingly verbose.

ENVIRONMENT
       MAIL_CONFIG
              Directory with the main.cf file.

CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS
       The following main.cf parameters are especially relevant to  this  pro-
       gram.

       The  text  below provides only a parameter summary. See postconf(5) for
       more details including examples.

       config_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)
              The default location of the Postfix main.cf and  master.cf  con-
              figuration files.

       syslog_facility (mail)
              The syslog facility of Postfix logging.

       syslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)
              The  mail  system  name that is prepended to the process name in
              syslog records, so that "smtpd"  becomes,  for  example,  "post-
              fix/smtpd".

SEE ALSO
       postconf(5), configuration parameters
       syslogd(8), syslog daemon

LICENSE
       The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.

AUTHOR(S)
       Wietse Venema
       IBM T.J. Watson Research
       P.O. Box 704
       Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA



                                                                    POSTLOG(1)
