POSTMAP(1)                                                          POSTMAP(1)



NAME
       postmap - Postfix lookup table management

SYNOPSIS
       postmap [-Nbfhimnoprsvw] [-c config_dir] [-d key] [-q key]
               [file_type:]file_name ...

DESCRIPTION
       The  postmap(1)  command  creates or queries one or more Postfix lookup
       tables, or updates an existing one. The input and output  file  formats
       are expected to be compatible with:

           makemap file_type file_name < file_name

       If  the  result  files  do not exist they will be created with the same
       group and other read permissions as their source file.

       While the table update is in progress, signal  delivery  is  postponed,
       and  an  exclusive,  advisory,  lock  is placed on the entire table, in
       order to avoid surprises in spectator processes.

INPUT FILE FORMAT
       The format of a lookup table input file is as follows:

       o      A table entry has the form

                   key whitespace value

       o      Empty lines and whitespace-only lines are ignored, as are  lines
              whose first non-whitespace character is a `#'.

       o      A  logical  line  starts  with  non-whitespace text. A line that
              starts with whitespace continues a logical line.

       The key and value are processed as is, except  that  surrounding  white
       space is stripped off. Unlike with Postfix alias databases, quotes can-
       not be used to protect lookup keys that contain special characters such
       as `#' or whitespace.

       By  default  the  lookup key is mapped to lowercase to make the lookups
       case insensitive; as of Postfix 2.3 this case folding happens only with
       tables whose lookup keys are fixed-case strings such as btree:, dbm: or
       hash:. With earlier versions, the lookup key is folded even with tables
       where  a lookup field can match both upper and lower case text, such as
       regexp: and pcre:. This resulted in loss of  information  with  $number
       substitutions.

COMMAND-LINE ARGUMENTS
       -b     Enable  message  body  query mode. When reading lookup keys from
              standard input with "-q -", process the input as  if  it  is  an
              email  message  in  RFC  2822 format.  Each line of body content
              becomes one lookup key.

              By default, the -b option starts generating lookup keys  at  the
              first  non-header line, and stops when the end of the message is
              reached.  To simulate  body_checks(5)  processing,  enable  MIME
              parsing  with  -m.  With  this, the -b option generates no body-
              style lookup keys for attachment MIME headers and  for  attached
              message/* headers.

              This feature is available in Postfix version 2.6 and later.

       -c config_dir
              Read  the  main.cf  configuration  file  in  the named directory
              instead of the default configuration directory.

       -d key Search the specified maps for key and remove one entry per  map.
              The  exit  status  is  zero  when  the requested information was
              found.

              If a key value of - is specified, the program reads  key  values
              from  the standard input stream. The exit status is zero when at
              least one of the requested keys was found.

       -f     Do not fold the lookup key  to  lower  case  while  creating  or
              querying a table.

              With  Postfix  version  2.3 and later, this option has no effect
              for regular expression tables. There, case folding is controlled
              by appending a flag to a pattern.

       -h     Enable  message header query mode. When reading lookup keys from
              standard input with "-q -", process the input as  if  it  is  an
              email  message  in  RFC  2822  format.  Each logical header line
              becomes one lookup key. A multi-line header becomes  one  lookup
              key with one or more embedded newline characters.

              By  default, the -h option generates lookup keys until the first
              non-header line is reached.  To simulate  header_checks(5)  pro-
              cessing,  enable  MIME parsing with -m. With this, the -h option
              also generates header-style  lookup  keys  for  attachment  MIME
              headers and for attached message/* headers.

              This feature is available in Postfix version 2.6 and later.

       -i     Incremental  mode.  Read  entries from standard input and do not
              truncate an existing database. By default, postmap(1) creates  a
              new database from the entries in file_name.

       -m     Enable MIME parsing with "-b" and "-h".

              This feature is available in Postfix version 2.6 and later.

       -N     Include  the  terminating  null character that terminates lookup
              keys and values. By default, postmap(1)  does  whatever  is  the
              default for the host operating system.

       -n     Don't  include  the  terminating  null character that terminates
              lookup keys and values. By default, postmap(1) does whatever  is
              the default for the host operating system.

       -o     Do  not release root privileges when processing a non-root input
              file. By default, postmap(1) drops root privileges and  runs  as
              the source file owner instead.

       -p     Do  not  inherit the file access permissions from the input file
              when creating a new file.   Instead,  create  a  new  file  with
              default access permissions (mode 0644).

       -q key Search  the  specified  maps  for  key and write the first value
              found to the standard output stream. The  exit  status  is  zero
              when the requested information was found.

              If  a  key value of - is specified, the program reads key values
              from the standard input stream and writes one line of key  value
              output for each key that was found. The exit status is zero when
              at least one of the requested keys was found.

       -r     When updating a table, do not complain about attempts to  update
              existing entries, and make those updates anyway.

       -s     Retrieve  all database elements, and write one line of key value
              output for each element. The elements are  printed  in  database
              order,  which  is not necessarily the same as the original input
              order.

              This feature is available in Postfix version 2.2 and later,  and
              is not available for all database types.

       -v     Enable  verbose  logging  for  debugging  purposes.  Multiple -v
              options make the software increasingly verbose.

       -w     When updating a table, do not complain about attempts to  update
              existing entries, and ignore those attempts.

       Arguments:

       file_type
              The database type. To find out what types are supported, use the
              "postconf -m" command.

              The postmap(1) command can query any supported file type, but it
              can create only the following file types:

              btree  The  output  file  is  a  btree file, named file_name.db.
                     This is available on systems with support  for  db  data-
                     bases.

              cdb    The  output  consists  of  one file, named file_name.cdb.
                     This is available on systems with support for  cdb  data-
                     bases.

              dbm    The output consists of two files, named file_name.pag and
                     file_name.dir.  This is available on systems with support
                     for dbm databases.

              hash   The  output  file  is  a hashed file, named file_name.db.
                     This is available on systems with support  for  db  data-
                     bases.

              fail   A  table that reliably fails all requests. The lookup ta-
                     ble name is used for logging only. This table  exists  to
                     simplify Postfix error tests.

              sdbm   The output consists of two files, named file_name.pag and
                     file_name.dir.  This is available on systems with support
                     for sdbm databases.

              When  no  file_type is specified, the software uses the database
              type  specified  via  the  default_database_type   configuration
              parameter.

       file_name
              The name of the lookup table source file when rebuilding a data-
              base.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Problems are logged to the standard error stream and to syslogd(8).  No
       output  means  that  no  problems  were detected. Duplicate entries are
       skipped and are flagged with a warning.

       postmap(1) terminates with zero exit status in case of success (includ-
       ing  successful  "postmap -q" lookup) and terminates with non-zero exit
       status in case of failure.

ENVIRONMENT
       MAIL_CONFIG
              Directory with Postfix configuration files.

       MAIL_VERBOSE
              Enable verbose logging for debugging purposes.

CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS
       The following main.cf parameters are especially relevant to  this  pro-
       gram.   The  text  below  provides  only a parameter summary. See post-
       conf(5) for more details including examples.

       berkeley_db_create_buffer_size (16777216)
              The per-table I/O buffer size for programs that create  Berkeley
              DB hash or btree tables.

       berkeley_db_read_buffer_size (131072)
              The per-table I/O buffer size for programs that read Berkeley DB
              hash or btree tables.

       config_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)
              The default location of the Postfix main.cf and  master.cf  con-
              figuration files.

       default_database_type (see 'postconf -d' output)
              The default database type for use in newaliases(1), postalias(1)
              and postmap(1) commands.

       syslog_facility (mail)
              The syslog facility of Postfix logging.

       syslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)
              The mail system name that is prepended to the  process  name  in
              syslog  records,  so  that  "smtpd" becomes, for example, "post-
              fix/smtpd".

SEE ALSO
       postalias(1), create/update/query alias database
       postconf(1), supported database types
       postconf(5), configuration parameters
       syslogd(8), system logging

README FILES
       Use "postconf readme_directory" or "postconf html_directory" to  locate
       this information.
       DATABASE_README, Postfix lookup table overview

LICENSE
       The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.

AUTHOR(S)
       Wietse Venema
       IBM T.J. Watson Research
       P.O. Box 704
       Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA



                                                                    POSTMAP(1)
