POSTCAT(1)                                                          POSTCAT(1)



NAME
       postcat - show Postfix queue file contents

SYNOPSIS
       postcat [-bdehnoqv] [-c config_dir] [files...]

DESCRIPTION
       The postcat(1) command prints the contents of the named files in human-
       readable form. The files are expected to be in Postfix queue file  for-
       mat.  If  no files are specified on the command line, the program reads
       from standard input.

       By default, postcat(1) shows the envelope and message  content,  as  if
       the  options -beh were specified. To view message content only, specify
       -bh (Postfix 2.7 and later).

       Options:

       -b     Show body content.  The -b option starts producing output at the
              first  non-header line, and stops when the end of the message is
              reached.

              This feature is available in Postfix 2.7 and later.

       -c config_dir
              The main.cf configuration file is in the named directory instead
              of the default configuration directory.

       -d     Print the decimal type of each record.

       -e     Show message envelope content.

              This feature is available in Postfix 2.7 and later.

       -h     Show message header content.  The -h option produces output from
              the beginning of the message up to, but not including, the first
              non-header line.

              This feature is available in Postfix 2.7 and later.

       -o     Print the queue file offset of each record.

       -q     Search  the  Postfix queue for the named files instead of taking
              the names literally.

              This feature is available in Postfix 2.0 and later.

       -v     Enable verbose  logging  for  debugging  purposes.  Multiple  -v
              options make the software increasingly verbose.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Problems are reported to the standard error stream.

ENVIRONMENT
       MAIL_CONFIG
              Directory with Postfix configuration files.

CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS
       The  following  main.cf parameters are especially relevant to this pro-
       gram.

       The text below provides only a parameter summary. See  postconf(5)  for
       more details including examples.

       config_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)
              The  default  location of the Postfix main.cf and master.cf con-
              figuration files.

       queue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)
              The location of the Postfix top-level queue directory.

FILES
       /var/spool/postfix, Postfix queue directory

SEE ALSO
       postconf(5), Postfix configuration

LICENSE
       The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.

AUTHOR(S)
       Wietse Venema
       IBM T.J. Watson Research
       P.O. Box 704
       Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA



                                                                    POSTCAT(1)
