POSTKICK(1)                                                        POSTKICK(1)



NAME
       postkick - kick a Postfix service

SYNOPSIS
       postkick [-c config_dir] [-v] class service request

DESCRIPTION
       The  postkick(1)  command sends request to the specified service over a
       local transport channel.  This command makes Postfix private IPC acces-
       sible for use in, for example, shell scripts.

       Options:

       -c config_dir
              Read  the  main.cf  configuration  file  in  the named directory
              instead of the default configuration directory.

       -v     Enable verbose  logging  for  debugging  purposes.  Multiple  -v
              options make the software increasingly verbose.

       Arguments:

       class  Name  of  a  class  of local transport channel endpoints, either
              public (accessible by any local user) or private (administrative
              access only).

       service
              The name of a local transport endpoint within the named class.

       request
              A string. The list of valid requests is service-specific.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Problems and transactions are logged to the standard error stream.

ENVIRONMENT
       MAIL_CONFIG
              Directory with Postfix configuration files.

       MAIL_VERBOSE
              Enable verbose logging for debugging purposes.

CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS
       The  following  main.cf parameters are especially relevant to this pro-
       gram.  The text below provides only  a  parameter  summary.  See  post-
       conf(5) for more details including examples.

       config_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)
              The  default  location of the Postfix main.cf and master.cf con-
              figuration files.

       application_event_drain_time (100s)
              How long the postkick(1) command waits for a  request  to  enter
              the Postfix daemon process input buffer before giving up.

       queue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)
              The location of the Postfix top-level queue directory.

FILES
       /var/spool/postfix/private, private class endpoints
       /var/spool/postfix/public, public class endpoints

SEE ALSO
       qmgr(8), queue manager trigger protocol
       pickup(8), local pickup daemon
       postconf(5), configuration parameters

LICENSE
       The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.

AUTHOR(S)
       Wietse Venema
       IBM T.J. Watson Research
       P.O. Box 704
       Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA



                                                                   POSTKICK(1)
