POSTDROP(1)                                                        POSTDROP(1)



NAME
       postdrop - Postfix mail posting utility

SYNOPSIS
       postdrop [-rv] [-c config_dir]

DESCRIPTION
       The  postdrop(1)  command  creates a file in the maildrop directory and
       copies its standard input to the file.

       Options:

       -c config_dir
              The main.cf configuration file is in the named directory instead
              of the default configuration directory. See also the MAIL_CONFIG
              environment setting below.

       -r     Use a Postfix-internal protocol for  reading  the  message  from
              standard input, and for reporting status information on standard
              output. This is currently the only supported method.

       -v     Enable verbose  logging  for  debugging  purposes.  Multiple  -v
              options  make  the  software increasingly verbose. As of Postfix
              2.3, this option is available for the super-user only.

SECURITY
       The command is designed to run with set-group ID privileges, so that it
       can write to the maildrop queue directory and so that it can connect to
       Postfix daemon processes.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Fatal errors: malformed input, I/O error, out of memory.  Problems  are
       logged  to syslogd(8) and to the standard error stream.  When the input
       is incomplete, or when the process receives a HUP, INT,  QUIT  or  TERM
       signal, the queue file is deleted.

ENVIRONMENT
       MAIL_CONFIG
              Directory  with the main.cf file. In order to avoid exploitation
              of set-group ID privileges, a non-standard directory is  allowed
              only if:

              o      The  name is listed in the standard main.cf file with the
                     alternate_config_directories configuration parameter.

              o      The command is invoked by the super-user.

CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS
       The following main.cf parameters are especially relevant to  this  pro-
       gram.   The  text  below  provides  only a parameter summary. See post-
       conf(5) for more details including examples.

       alternate_config_directories (empty)
              A list of non-default Postfix configuration directories that may
              be  specified with "-c config_directory" on the command line, or
              via the MAIL_CONFIG environment parameter.

       config_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)
              The default location of the Postfix main.cf and  master.cf  con-
              figuration files.

       import_environment (see 'postconf -d' output)
              The  list  of environment parameters that a Postfix process will
              import from a non-Postfix parent process.

       queue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)
              The location of the Postfix top-level queue directory.

       syslog_facility (mail)
              The syslog facility of Postfix logging.

       syslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)
              The mail system name that is prepended to the  process  name  in
              syslog  records,  so  that  "smtpd" becomes, for example, "post-
              fix/smtpd".

       trigger_timeout (10s)
              The time limit for sending a trigger to a  Postfix  daemon  (for
              example, the pickup(8) or qmgr(8) daemon).

       Available in Postfix version 2.2 and later:

       authorized_submit_users (static:anyone)
              List  of  users who are authorized to submit mail with the send-
              mail(1) command (and with the privileged postdrop(1) helper com-
              mand).

FILES
       /var/spool/postfix/maildrop, maildrop queue

SEE ALSO
       sendmail(1), compatibility interface
       postconf(5), configuration parameters
       syslogd(8), system logging

LICENSE
       The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.

AUTHOR(S)
       Wietse Venema
       IBM T.J. Watson Research
       P.O. Box 704
       Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA



                                                                   POSTDROP(1)
