
profiles(1)               BSD General Commands Manual              profiles(1)

NAME
     profiles -- Profiles Tool

SYNOPSIS
     profiles [[-I | -R | -i] [-F file_path_to_profile | -]] [[-L]
              [-U username]] [[-r] [-p profile_id] [-u uuid]
              [-o output_file_path] [-Y shortname]] [-PHDdCchfvxVzY]

DESCRIPTION
     profiles allows you to install, remove or list configuration profiles, or
     to install provisioning profiles.  Some commands may only work with ele-
     vated privileges, or for the current user.

     -I  Install a configuration profile for a particular user from a profile
         file.

     -i  Install a provisioning profile from a profile file.

     -V  Verify a provisioning profile from a profile file.

     -R  Remove a configuration profile for a particular user from a profile
         file.

     -r  Remove a provisioning profile given a identifier and uuid.

     -L  List configuration profile information for a particular user, or the
         current user if no Username was specified.

     -F  Specify the file path to the profile file.   Use '-' as the file path
         to input the configuration profile (not provisioning profile) XML
         plist via stdin.

     -U  Specify the short username.   If installing or removing a profile as
         root (or sudo), the designated user must be logged in.

     -H  Returns whether configuration profiles are installed.

     -P  List configuration profile information for everyone.

     -C  List configuration profile information for the computer.

     -c  List provisioning profile information.

     -p  A profile identifier used to locate the configuration or provisioning
         profile.

     -u  A uuid identifier used to locate the provisioning profile.  The uuid
         must be in its canonical 36 character form.

     -z  The profile removal password.   If not specified and the profile
         requires a removal password, you will be prompted.

     -o  The output file path for profile information (-L, -P, -C, -c) as a
         plist file.   The path argument must be specified to use this option,
         Use 'stdout' to send this informaton to the console.  File output
         will be written as an XML plist file, or you can use 'stdout-xml' to
         write XML to the console.  The toplevel key will contain the user
         name, or _computerLevel for device or provisioning profile informa-
         tion.

     -h  Displays help information.

     -v  Enables verbose mode.   A 'pass' or 'fail' indicator may also be dis-
         played based on the command return status to stdout.

     -x  Displays tool version number.   The version is in the format x.yy,
         where x will change if new or incompatible commands are added.  The
         version initially starts at 2.00

     -f  Automatically confirm any questions, or when used with -s, will retry
         startup profiles at each startup until successfully installed.

     -D  Deletes all existing configuration profiles.  It will not update any
         existing managed preferences. (Requires root privileges.  See impor-
         tant caveats below)

     -d  Deletes all existing provisioning profiles. (Requires root privi-
         leges)

     -s  Sets profile for startup. (Requires root privileges)

     -Y  Specify the shortname of a local user that will be enrolled with MDM
         if the configuration profile being installed contains a MDM payload.
         Will only be used if the profile is being installed as root.

EXAMPLES
     profiles -I -F /testfile.configprofile
              Installs the profile file 'testfile.mobileconfig' into current
              user.

     profiles -R -F /profiles/testfile2.configprofile
              Removes the profile file '/profiles/testfile2.mobileconfig' into
              the current user.

     profiles -H
              Returns whether or not configuration profiles are installed on
              the system.

     profiles -P
              Displays information on all installed configuration profiles on
              the system.

     profiles -L
              Displays information for installed profiles for the current
              user.

     profiles -L -o /outputfile
              Displays information for installed profiles for the current user
              and sends the output as a dictionary to /outputfile.plist.

     profiles -Lv
              Displays extended information for installed configuration pro-
              files for the current user.

     profiles -D
              Removes all configuration profile inforamtion on the system.
              (see important caveat below)

     profiles -R -p com.example.profile1 -z pass
              Removes any installed profiles with the identifier com.exam-
              ple.profile1 in the current user and using a removal password of
              'pass'.

     profiles -s -F /startupprofile.mobileconfig -f
              Sets up the profile as a startup profile to be triggered at the
              next system startup time.   If the profile can't be installed,
              it will try again at next startup time.

     profiles -I -F - < /configprofile.mobileconfig
              Installs the configuration profile read in from stdin.   The
              stdin data must be a fully formed XML plist containing the con-
              figuration profile information.

CAVEATS
     Certain configuration profiles may be marked as a device profile (system)
     using the PayloadScope key.  However, the profiles tool will ignore the
     PayloadScope key and install the profile based on how the profile is
     installed; either a user profile if installed from a user, or a device
     profile if installed from root (or sudo).   If you are installing a pro-
     file as root, you may use the -U parameter to install or remove the pro-
     file for that active user.

     Specific payload dictionary information is not available since it may
     contain sensitive information.  Non-sensitive information can be viewed
     using the System Report.

     Because this command line tool was not designed to ask for missing infor-
     mation, some profiles may fail to install properly.  The only recourse is
     to insert the missing information before installing the configuration
     profile.  The System Preferences application's Profiles pane is designed
     to handle the querying of missing information.

     Configuration profiles installed to the wrong user domain (user vs sys-
     tem) may not behave in the way you expect since the information may not
     be useful to that particular domain.  For example, adding a Mail payload
     to the system domain will not do anything since Mail payloads must have a
     user account.   Additionally, since profiles are stored by the user
     shortname and only stored on the local client, care should be taken to
     not install a profile that could be used by a same named local user.

     The profiles tool should only be used from the /usr/bin folder since cer-
     tain operations are privileged and may fail if moved.

     The -D command removes all configuration profile information without
     regards for any services it may have set up.  This may leave your system
     in a state that requires you to manually clean up any service (account)
     information the profile(s) had installed - for all users on that system.
     You should not use this command without considering its consequences.
     There is no way to undo this command.  You will be prompted to confirm
     this command before it will execute.

MacOSX                         December 16, 2014                        MacOSX
