
pstopdf(1)                BSD General Commands Manual               pstopdf(1)

NAME
     pstopdf -- convert PostScript input into a PDF document.

SYNOPSIS
     pstopdf [inputfile] [-o outname] [-l] [-p] [-i]

DESCRIPTION
     pstopdf is a tool to convert PostScript input data into a PDF document.
     The input data may come from a file or may be read from stdin. The PDF
     document is always written to a file. The name of the output PDF file is
     derived from the name of the input file or may be explicitly named using
     the -o option.

     Flags:

     -o outname
             The name of the output file to create. If an explicit file name
             is not supplied, the output file will be created in the current
             directory and named foo.pdf for an input file named foo.ps

     -i      Reads from stdin rather than a named input file. If the output
             file is not explicitly named and the input data comes from stdin
             the named output file will be stdin.pdf

     -l      Specifies that any messages generated during file conversion be
             written to a log file. For an output file named foo.pdf the gen-
             erated log file is foo.pdf.log rather than generated to stdout.
             If there are no messages, the log file is not generated.

     -p      Generates a simple progress message to stdout at the end of each
             page. Because conversion of complex or lengthy PostScript input
             can take time, it is sometimes useful to see that progress is
             being made. Progress messages are always written to stdout even
             when the -l (log file) option is specified.

EXAMPLES
     pstopdf inputfile.ps          Creates a PDF file named inputfile.pdf from
                                   the PostScript data in the input file
                                   inputfile.ps

     pstopdf -i -o outputfilename  Creates a PDF file named outputfilename
                                   from the PostScript data read from stdin.

Apple Computer, Inc.           February 14, 2016          Apple Computer, Inc.
