
PYTHON(1)                 BSD General Commands Manual                PYTHON(1)

NAME
     python, pythonw -- an interpreted, interactive, object-oriented program-
     ming language

SYNOPSIS
     python ...
     pythonw ...

DESCRIPTION
     To support multiple versions, the programs named python and pythonw
     select the real version of Python to run, depending on various settings.
     The current supported versions are 2.6 and 2.7, with the default being
     2.7.  Use

           % man python2.6
           % man python2.7
           % man pythonw2.6
           % man pythonw2.7

     to see the man page for a specific version.  Without a version specified
     these will show the man page for the (unmodified) default version of
     Python (2.7).  To see the man page for a specific version of pydoc, for
     example, use

           % man pydoc2.6

CHANGING THE DEFAULT PYTHON
     Using

           % defaults write com.apple.versioner.python Version 2.6

     will make version 2.6 the user default when running both the python and
     pythonw commands (versioner is the internal name of the version-selection
     software used).

     The environment variable VERSIONER_PYTHON_VERSION can also be used to set
     the python and pythonw version:

           % export VERSIONER_PYTHON_VERSION=2.6 # Bourne-like shells
                or
           % setenv VERSIONER_PYTHON_VERSION 2.6 # C-like shells
           % python ...

     This environment variable takes precedence over the preference file set-
     tings.

USING A SPECIFIC VERSION
     Rather than using the python command, one can use a specific version
     directly.  For example, running python2.6 from the command line will run
     the 2.6 version of Python.

     One can use a specific version of Python on the #! line of a script, but
     that may have portability and future compatibility issues.

     Note that the preference files and environment variables that apply to
     the python command do not apply when running a specific version of
     Python.  In particular, running python2.6 will always default to 64-bit
     execution (unless one uses the arch(1) command to specifically select a
     32-bit architecture).

SEE ALSO
     python2.6(1), python2.7(1), pythonw2.6(1), pythonw2.7(1), arch(1)

BSD                              July 7, 2014                              BSD
