
QUOTA(1)                  BSD General Commands Manual                 QUOTA(1)

NAME
     quota -- display disk usage and limits

SYNOPSIS
     quota [-g] [-u] [-v | -q]
     quota [-u] [-v | -q] user
     quota [-g] [-v | -q] group

DESCRIPTION
     Quota displays users' disk usage and limits.  By default only the user
     quotas are printed.

     Options:

     -g      Print group quotas for the group of which the user is a member.
             The optional -u flag is equivalent to the default.

     -v      quota will display quotas on filesystems where no storage is
             allocated.

     -q      Print a more terse message, containing only information on
             filesystems where usage is over quota.

     Specifying both -g and -u displays both the user quotas and the group
     quotas (for the user).

     Only the super-user may use the -u flag and the optional user argument to
     view the limits of other users.  Non-super-users can use the -g flag and
     optional group argument to view only the limits of groups of which they
     are members.

     The -q flag takes precedence over the -v flag.

     Quota reports the quotas of all the filesystems that have a mount option
     file located at its root.  If quota exits with a non-zero status, then
     one or more filesystems are over quota.

FILES
     Each of the following quota files is located at the root of the mounted
     filesystem.  The mount option files are empty files whose existence indi-
     cates that quotas are to be enabled for that filesystem.

     .quota.user       data file containing user quotas
     .quota.group      data file containing group quotas
     .quota.ops.user   mount option file used to enable user quotas
     .quota.ops.group  mount option file used to enable group quotas

HISTORY
     The quota command appeared in 4.2BSD.

SEE ALSO
     quotactl(2), edquota(8), quotacheck(8), quotaon(8), repquota(8)

4.2 Berkeley Distribution       March 28, 2002       4.2 Berkeley Distribution
