rmic(1)                                                                rmic(1)



NAME
       rmic - Java RMI stub compiler

SYNOPSIS
       rmic [ options ] package-qualified-class-names

DESCRIPTION
       The  rmic compiler generates stub and skeleton class files (JRMP proto-
       col) and stub and tie class files (IIOP protocol) for  remote  objects.
       These class files are generated from compiled Java programming language
       classes that are remote object implementation classes.  A remote imple-
       mentation   class   is   a   class   that   implements   the  interface
       java.rmi.Remote. The classes named in the  rmic  command  must  be  for
       classes  that have been compiled successfully with the javac(1) command
       and be fully package-qualified.  For example, running rmic on the class
       file name HelloImpl as shown here:

              rmic hello.HelloImpl

       creates  the HelloImpl_Stub.class file in the hello subdirectory (named
       for the class's package).

       A skeleton for a remote object is a JRMP  protocol  server-side  entity
       has a method that dispatches calls to the remote object implementation.

       A tie for a remote object is a server-side entity similar to  a  skele-
       ton, but which communicates with the client using the IIOP protocol.

       A  stub is a proxy for a remote object that is responsible for forward-
       ing method invocations on remote objects to the server where the actual
       remote object implementation resides.  A client's reference to a remote
       object is actually a reference to a local stub.

       By default, rmic generates stub classes that use the 1.2 JRMP stub pro-
       tocol  version  only,  as if the -v1.2 option had been specified. (Note
       that the -vcompat option was the default in releases prior to 1.5.) Use
       the  -iiop  option to generate stub and tie classes for the IIOP proto-
       col.

       The stub implements only the remote interfaces,  not  local  interfaces
       also  implemented  by  the  remote  object. Because the stub implements
       exactly the same set of remote  interfaces  as  the  remote  object,  a
       client  can  use the Java language's built-in operators for casting and
       type-checking.  For IIOP, the PortableRemoteObject.narrow  method  must
       be used.

OPTIONS
       -bootclasspath path
                      Overrides location of bootstrap class files.

       -classpath path
                      Specifies  the  path rmic uses to look up classes.  Set-
                      ting this option overrides the default or the  CLASSPATH
                      environment  variable.   Directories  are  separated  by
                      colons.  Thus, the general format for path is:

                           .:<your_path>

                      For example:

                           .:/usr/local/java/classes

       -d directory   Specifies the root directory  of  the  class  hierarchy.
                      You  can use this option to specify a destination direc-
                      tory for the stub, skeleton, and tie files.   For  exam-
                      ple, the command

            rmic -d /java/classes foo.MyClass

       would place the stub and skeleton classes derived from MyClass into the
       directory /java/classes/foo.  If the -d option is  not  specified,  the
       default behavior is as if "-d ."  were specified: the package hierarchy
       of  the  target  class  is  created  in  the  current  directory,   and
       stub/tie/skeleton files are placed within it. (Note that in some previ-
       ous versions of rmic, if -d was not specified, then the package hierar-
       chy  was  not created, and all of the output files were placed directly
       in the current directory.)

       -extdirs path  Overrides location of installed extensions.

       -g             Enables generation of all debugging information, includ-
                      ing local variables. By default, only line number infor-
                      mation is generated.

       -idl           Causes rmic to generate OMG IDL for the  classes  speci-
                      fied  and any classes referenced.  IDL provides a purely
                      declarative,  programming  language-independent  way  of
                      specifying an object's API.  The IDL is used as a speci-
                      fication for methods and data that can be written in and
                      invoked  from any language that provides CORBA bindings.
                      This includes Java and C++ among others.  When the  -idl
                      option is used, other options also include:

                      -always or -alwaysgenerate
                           Forces    re-generation    even    when    existing
                           stubs/ties/IDL are newer than the input class.
                      -factory
                           Uses factory keyword in generated IDL.
                      -idlModule fromJavaPackage[.class] toIDLModule
                           Specifies IDLEntity package mapping.  For example:

                                -idlModule foo.bar
                                my::real::idlmod.

                      -idlFile fromJavaPackage[.class] toIDLFile
                           Specifies IDLEntity file mapping.  For example:

                                -idlFile test.pkg.X TEST16.idl

       -iiop          Causes rmic to  generate  IIOP  stub  and  tie  classes,
                      rather  than  JRMP  stub  and  skeleton classes.  A stub
                      class is a local proxy for a remote object and  is  used
                      by  clients  to  send  calls  to  a server.  Each remote
                      interface requires a stub class, which  implements  that
                      remote  interface.   A  client's  reference  to a remote
                      object is actually a reference to a stub.   Tie  classes
                      are  used  on  the server side to process incoming calls
                      and dispatch the  calls  to  the  proper  implementation
                      class.   Each implementation class requires a tie class.

                      Invoking rmic with -iiop generates stubs and  ties  that
                      conform to this naming convention:

                           _<implementationName>_stub.class

                           _<interfaceName>_tie.class

                      When  the  -iiop  option  is  used,  other  options also
                      include:

                      -always or -alwaysgenerate
                           Forces    re-generation    even    when    existing
                           stubs/ties/IDL are newer than the input class.
                      -nolocalstubs
                           Does  not  create  stubs optimized for same-process
                           clients and servers.
                      -noValueMethods
                           Must be used with the -idl option.  Prevents  addi-
                           tion of valuetype methods and initializers to emit-
                           ted  IDL.   These  methods  and  initializers   are
                           optional  for  valuetypes  and are generated unless
                           the -noValueMethods option is specified when  using
                           the -idl option.
                      -poa
                           Changes the inheritance from org.omg.CORBA_2_3.por-
                           table.ObjectImpl to org.omg.PortableServer.Servant.
                           The  PortableServer  module for the Portable Object
                           Adapter (POA) defines the native Servant  type.  In
                           the  Java programming language, the Servant type is
                           mapped to the  Java  org.omg.PortableServer.Servant
                           class. It server as the base class for all POA ser-
                           vant implementation and provides a number of  meth-
                           ods that may be invoked by the application program-
                           mer, as well as methods which are  invoked  by  the
                           POA  itself  and  may  be overridden by the user to
                           control aspects of servant behavior. Based  on  the
                           OMG  IDL  to  Java  Language  Mapping Specfication,
                           CORBA V 2.3.1 ptc/00-01-08.pdf.




                      -Joption
                           Pass  option  to  the  Java   virtual
                           machine,  where  option is one of the
                           options described on the man page for
                           the    java   application   launcher,
                           java(1). For example, -J-Xms48m  sets
                           the  startup  memory to 48 megabytes.
                           It is a common convention for  -J  to
                           pass  options  to the underlying vir-
                           tual machine.

       -keepgenerated Retains the generated .java  source  files
                      for the stub, skeleton, and/or tie classes
                      and writes them to the same  directory  as
                      the .class files

       -nowarn        Turns  off warnings. If used, the compiler
                      does not print warnings.

       -vcompat       Generates stub and skeleton  classes  com-
                      patible  with  both  the  1.1 and 1.2 JRMP
                      stub protocol versions. (This  option  was
                      the default in releases prior to 1.5.) The
                      generated stub classes will  use  the  1.1
                      stub protocol version when loaded in a JDK
                      1.1 virtual machine and will use  the  1.2
                      stub  protocol  version when loaded into a
                      1.2 (or later) virtual machine. The gener-
                      ated  skeleton  classes  will support both
                      1.1 and 1.2 stub  protocol  versions.  The
                      generated  classes are relatively large in
                      order to support both modes of  operation.

       -verbose       Causes  the compiler and linker to display
                      messages about the classes being  compiled
                      and what class files being loaded.

       -v1.1          Creates  stubs  and  skeletons for JDK 1.1
                      stub protocol  version  only.   Note  that
                      this  option is only useful for generating
                      stub classes that  are  serialization-com-
                      patible   with  pre-existing,  statically-
                      deployed stub classes that were  generated
                      by  the  rmic  tool  from JDK 1.1 and that
                      cannot  be  upgraded  (and  dynamic  class
                      loading is not being used).

       -v1.2          (default)  Generates  stub classes for the
                      1.2 JRMP stub protocol  version  only.  No
                      skeleton  classes  are generated with this
                      option because skeleton  classes  are  not
                      used  with  the 1.2 stub protocol version.
                      The generated stub classes will  not  work
                      if  they are loaded into a JDK 1.1 virtual
                      machine.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       CLASSPATH      Used to provide the system with a path  to
                      user-defined   classes.   Directories  are
                      separated by colons.  For example,

                           .:/usr/local/java/classes

SEE ALSO
       java(1), javac(1) CLASSPATH



                                 23 June 2004                          rmic(1)
