
RSH(1)                    BSD General Commands Manual                   RSH(1)

NAME
     rsh -- remote shell

SYNOPSIS
     rsh [-46dn] [-l username] [-t timeout] host [command]

DESCRIPTION
     The rsh utility executes command on host.

     The rsh utility copies its standard input to the remote command, the
     standard output of the remote command to its standard output, and the
     standard error of the remote command to its standard error.  Interrupt,
     quit and terminate signals are propagated to the remote command; rsh nor-
     mally terminates when the remote command does.  The options are as fol-
     lows:

     -4    Use IPv4 addresses only.

     -6    Use IPv6 addresses only.

     -d    Turn on socket debugging (using setsockopt(2)) on the TCP sockets
           used for communication with the remote host.

     -l username
           Allow the remote username to be specified.  By default, the remote
           username is the same as the local username.  Authorization is
           determined as in rlogin(1).

     -n    Redirect input from the special device /dev/null (see the BUGS sec-
           tion of this manual page).

     -t timeout
           Allow a timeout to be specified (in seconds).  If no data is sent
           or received in this time, rsh will exit.

     If no command is specified, you will be logged in on the remote host
     using rlogin(1).

     Shell metacharacters which are not quoted are interpreted on local
     machine, while quoted metacharacters are interpreted on the remote
     machine.  For example, the command

           rsh otherhost cat remotefile >> localfile

     appends the remote file remotefile to the local file localfile, while

           rsh otherhost cat remotefile ">>" other_remotefile

     appends remotefile to other_remotefile.

FILES
     /etc/hosts
     /etc/auth.conf

SEE ALSO
     rlogin(1), setsockopt(2), rcmd(3), ruserok(3), auth.conf(5), hosts(5),
     hosts.equiv(5), rlogind(8), rshd(8)

HISTORY
     The rsh command appeared in 4.2BSD.

BUGS
     If you are using csh(1) and put a rsh in the background without redirect-
     ing its input away from the terminal, it will block even if no reads are
     posted by the remote command.  If no input is desired you should redirect
     the input of rsh to /dev/null using the -n option.

     You cannot run an interactive command (like ee(1) or vi(1)) using rsh;
     use rlogin(1) instead.

     Stop signals stop the local rsh process only; this is arguably wrong, but
     currently hard to fix for reasons too complicated to explain here.

BSD                            October 16, 2002                            BSD
