
SCRIPT(1)                 BSD General Commands Manual                SCRIPT(1)

NAME
     script -- make typescript of terminal session

SYNOPSIS
     script [-adkpqr] [-F pipe] [-t time] [file [command ...]]

DESCRIPTION
     The script utility makes a typescript of everything printed on your ter-
     minal.  It is useful for students who need a hardcopy record of an inter-
     active session as proof of an assignment, as the typescript file can be
     printed out later with lpr(1).

     If the argument file is given, script saves all dialogue in file.  If no
     file name is given, the typescript is saved in the file typescript.

     If the argument command is given, script will run the specified command
     with an optional argument vector instead of an interactive shell.

     The following options are available:

     -a      Append the output to file or typescript, retaining the prior con-
             tents.

     -d      When playing back a session with the -p flag, do not sleep
             between records when playing back a timestamped session.

     -F pipe
             Immediately flush output after each write.  This will allow a
             user to create a named pipe using mkfifo(1) and another user may
             watch the live session using a utility like cat(1).

     -k      Log keys sent to the program as well as output.

     -p      Play back a session recorded with the -r flag in real time.

     -q      Run in quiet mode, omit the start, stop and command status mes-
             sages.

     -r      Record a session with input, output, and timestamping.

     -t time
             Specify the interval at which the script output file will be
             flushed to disk, in seconds.  A value of 0 causes script to flush
             after every character I/O event.  The default interval is 30 sec-
             onds.

     The script ends when the forked shell (or command) exits (a control-D to
     exit the Bourne shell (sh(1)), and exit, logout or control-D (if
     ignoreeof is not set) for the C-shell, csh(1)).

     Certain interactive commands, such as vi(1), create garbage in the type-
     script file.  The script utility works best with commands that do not
     manipulate the screen.  The results are meant to emulate a hardcopy ter-
     minal, not an addressable one.

ENVIRONMENT
     The following environment variables are utilized by script:

     SCRIPT
            The SCRIPT environment variable is added to the sub-shell.  If
            SCRIPT already existed in the users environment, its value is
            overwritten within the sub-shell.  The value of SCRIPT is the name
            of the typescript file.

     SHELL  If the variable SHELL exists, the shell forked by script will be
            that shell.  If SHELL is not set, the Bourne shell is assumed.
            (Most shells set this variable automatically).

SEE ALSO
     csh(1)

HISTORY
     The script command appeared in 3.0BSD.

     The -d, -p and -r options first appeared in NetBSD 2.0 and were ported to
     FreeBSD 9.2.

BUGS
     The script utility places everything in the log file, including linefeeds
     and backspaces.  This is not what the naive user expects.

     It is not possible to specify a command without also naming the script
     file because of argument parsing compatibility issues.

     When running in -k mode, echo cancelling is far from ideal.  The slave
     terminal mode is checked for ECHO mode to check when to avoid manual echo
     logging.  This does not work when the terminal is in a raw mode where the
     program being run is doing manual echo.

     If script reads zero bytes from the terminal, it switches to a mode when
     it only attempts to read once a second until there is data to read.  This
     prevents script from spinning on zero-byte reads, but might cause a
     1-second delay in processing of user input.

BSD                            December 4, 2013                            BSD
