SNMPWALK(1)                        Net-SNMP                        SNMPWALK(1)



NAME
       snmpwalk  -  retrieve a subtree of management values using SNMP GETNEXT
       requests

SYNOPSIS
       snmpwalk [APPLICATION OPTIONS] [COMMON OPTIONS] AGENT [OID]

DESCRIPTION
       snmpwalk is an SNMP application that  uses  SNMP  GETNEXT  requests  to
       query a network entity for a tree of information.

       An  object identifier (OID) may be given on the command line.  This OID
       specifies which portion of the object identifier space will be searched
       using  GETNEXT  requests.  All variables in the subtree below the given
       OID are queried and their values presented to the user.  Each  variable
       name is given in the format specified in variables(5).

       If  no OID argument is present, snmpwalk will search the subtree rooted
       at SNMPv2-SMI::mib-2 (including any MIB object values  from  other  MIB
       modules,  that  are defined as lying within this subtree).  If the net-
       work entity has an error processing the request packet, an error packet
       will  be  returned and a message will be shown, helping to pinpoint why
       the request was malformed.

       If the tree search causes attempts to search beyond the end of the MIB,
       the message "End of MIB" will be displayed.

OPTIONS
       -Cc     Do  not  check  whether the returned OIDs are increasing.  Some
               agents (LaserJets are an example) return OIDs out of order, but
               can  complete  the  walk anyway.  Other agents return OIDs that
               are out of order and can cause snmpwalk to  loop  indefinitely.
               By  default,  snmpwalk  tries to detect this behavior and warns
               you when it hits an agent acting illegally.  Use  -Cc  to  turn
               off this check.

       -CE {OID}
               End  the  walk  at the specified OID, rather than a simple sub-
               tree.  This can be used to walk  a  partial  subtree,  selected
               columns  of a table, or even two or more tables within a single
               command.

       -Ci     Include the given OID in the search range.   Normally  snmpwalk
               uses  GETNEXT  requests starting with the OID you specified and
               returns all results in the MIB  subtree  rooted  at  that  OID.
               Sometimes,  you  may  wish  to include the OID specified on the
               command line in the printed results if it is a valid OID in the
               tree itself.  This option lets you do this explicitly.

       -CI     In  fact,  the given OID will be retrieved automatically if the
               main subtree walk returns no useable  values.   This  allows  a
               walk  of a single instance to behave as generally expected, and
               return the specified instance value.   This  option  turns  off
               this  final  GET  request,  so a walk of a single instance will
               return nothing.

       -Cp     Upon completion of the walk,  print  the  number  of  variables
               found.

       -Ct     Upon completion of the walk, print the total wall-clock time it
               took to collect the data (in seconds).  Note that the timer  is
               started  just  before  the beginning of the data request series
               and stopped just after it  finishes.   Most  importantly,  this
               means  that  it  does  not include snmp library initialization,
               shutdown, argument processing, and any other overhead.

       In addition  to  these  options,  snmpwalk  takes  the  common  options
       described in the snmpcmd(1) manual page.

EXAMPLES
       Note  that  snmpbulkget  REQUIRES   an argument specifying the agent to
       query and at most one OID argument, as described there.  The command:

       snmpwalk -Os -c public -v 1 zeus system

       will retrieve all of the variables under system:

       sysDescr.0 = STRING: "SunOS zeus.net.cmu.edu 4.1.3_U1 1 sun4m"
       sysObjectID.0 = OID: enterprises.hp.nm.hpsystem.10.1.1
       sysUpTime.0 = Timeticks: (155274552) 17 days, 23:19:05
       sysContact.0 = STRING: ""
       sysName.0 = STRING: "zeus.net.cmu.edu"
       sysLocation.0 = STRING: ""
       sysServices.0 = INTEGER: 72
       (plus the contents of the sysORTable).

       The command:

       snmpwalk -Os -c public -v 1 -CE sysORTable zeus system

       will retrieve the scalar values, but omit the sysORTable.

SEE ALSO
       snmpcmd(1), snmpbulkwalk(1), variables(5).



V5.6.2.1                          28 May 2007                      SNMPWALK(1)
