SNMPBULKWALK(1)                    Net-SNMP                    SNMPBULKWALK(1)



NAME
       snmpbulkwalk  - retrieve a subtree of management values using SNMP GET-
       BULK requests

SYNOPSIS
       snmpbulkwalk [APPLICATION OPTIONS] [COMMON OPTIONS] AGENT [OID]

DESCRIPTION
       snmpbulkwalk is an SNMP application that uses SNMP GETBULK requests  to
       query a network entity efficiently for a tree of information.

       An  object identifier (OID) may be given on the command line.  This OID
       specifies which portion of the object identifier space will be searched
       using  GETBULK  requests.  All variables in the subtree below the given
       OID are queried and their values presented to the user.  Each  variable
       name is given in the format specified in variables(5).  If no OID argu-
       ment is present, snmpbulkwalk will search MIB-2.

       If the network entity has an error processing the  request  packet,  an
       error  packet  will be returned and a message will be shown, helping to
       pinpoint why the request was malformed.

       If the tree search causes attempts to search beyond the end of the MIB,
       the message "End of MIB" will be displayed.

OPTIONS
       -Cc     Do  not  check  whether the returned OIDs are increasing.  Some
               agents (LaserJets are an example) return OIDs out of order, but
               can  complete  the  walk anyway.  Other agents return OIDs that
               are out of order and can cause  snmpbulkwalk  to  loop  indefi-
               nitely.  By default, snmpbulkwalk tries to detect this behavior
               and warns you when it hits an agent acting illegally.  Use  -Cc
               to turn off this behaviour.

       -Ci     Include  the given OID in the search range.  Normally snmpbulk-
               walk uses GETBULK requests starting with the OID you  specified
               and  returns all results in the MIB tree after that OID.  Some-
               times, you may wish to include the OID specified on the command
               line  in  the  printed results if it is a valid OID in the tree
               itself.  This option lets you do this.

       -Cn<NUM>
               Set the non-repeaters field in the GETBULK PDUs.   This  speci-
               fies  the number of supplied variables that should not be iter-
               ated over.  The default is 0.

       -Cp     Upon completion of the walk,  print  the  number  of  variables
               found.

       -Cr<NUM>
               Set the max-repetitions field in the GETBULK PDUs.  This speci-
               fies the maximum number of iterations over the repeating  vari-
               ables.  The default is 10.

       In  addition  to  these  options, snmpbulkwalk takes the common options
       described  in  the  snmpcmd(1)  manual  page.   Note  that  snmpbulkget
       REQUIRES  an argument specifying the agent to query and at most one OID
       argument, as described above.

EXAMPLE
       The command:

       snmpbulkwalk -v2c -Os -c public zeus system

       will retrieve all of the variables under system:

       sysDescr.0 = STRING: "SunOS zeus.net.cmu.edu 4.1.3_U1 1 sun4m"
       sysObjectID.0 = OID: enterprises.hp.nm.hpsystem.10.1.1
       sysUpTime.0 = Timeticks: (155274552) 17 days, 23:19:05
       sysContact.0 = STRING: ""
       sysName.0 = STRING: "zeus.net.cmu.edu"
       sysLocation.0 = STRING: ""
       sysServices.0 = INTEGER: 72

       In contrast to snmpwalk, this information will typically be gathered in
       a  single  transaction  with the agent, rather than one transaction per
       variable found.  snmpbulkwalk is thus more efficient in terms  of  net-
       work  utilisation,  which  may  be especially important when retrieving
       large tables.

NOTE
       As the name implies, snmpbulkwalk utilizes the  SNMP  GETBULK  message,
       which is not available in SNMP v1.

SEE ALSO
       snmpcmd(1), variables(5).



V5.6.2.1                          01 May 2002                  SNMPBULKWALK(1)
