SNMPCONF(1)                        Net-SNMP                        SNMPCONF(1)



NAME
       snmpconf - creates and modifies SNMP configuration files

SYNOPSIS
       snmpconf [OPTIONS] [fileToCreate]

       Start with:
              snmpconf -g basic_setup

       Or even just:
              snmpconf

DESCRIPTION
       snmpconf  is  a  simple Perl script that walks you through setting up a
       configuration file step by step.  It should be fairly straight  forward
       to use.  Merely run it and answer its questions.

       In  its default mode of operation, it prompts the user with menus show-
       ing sections of the various configuration files it knows  about.   When
       the user selects a section, a sub-menu is shown listing of the descrip-
       tions of the tokens that can  be  created  in  that  section.   When  a
       description  is selected, the user is prompted with questions that con-
       struct the configuration line in question.

       Finally, when the user quits the program any configuration  files  that
       have  been  edited  by the user are saved to the local directory, fully
       commented.

       A particularly useful option is the  -g  switch,  which  walks  a  user
       through a specific set of configuration questions.  Run:

              snmpconf -g basic_setup

       for an example.

OPTIONS
       -f      Force overwriting existing files in the current directory with-
               out prompting the user if this is a desired thing to do.

       -i      When finished, install the files into the  location  where  the
               global system commands expect to find them.

       -p      When  finished,  install  the  files into the users home direc-
               tory's .snmp subdirectory (where  the  applications  will  also
               search for configuration files).

       -I DIRECTORY
               When  finished, install the files into the directory DIRECTORY.

       -a      Don't ask any questions.  Simply read in the various known con-
               figuration  files  and write them back out again.  This has the
               effect of "auto-commenting" the configuration  files  for  you.
               See the NEAT TRICKS section below.

       -rall|none
               Read  in  either  all or none of the found configuration files.
               Normally snmpconf prompts you for which files you wish to  read
               in.   Reading  in  these  configuration  files will merge these
               files with the results of the questions that it asks of you.

       -R FILE,...
               Read in a specific list of configuration files.

       -g GROUPNAME
               Groups of configuration entries can be created that can be used
               to  walk a user through a series of questions to create an ini-
               tial configuration file.  There are no menus to navigate,  just
               a list of questions.  Run:

                      snmpconf -g basic_setup

               for a good example.

       -G      List all the known groups.

       -c CONFIGDIR
               snmpconf uses a directory of configuration information to learn
               about the files and questions that it should be  asking.   This
               option tells snmpconf to use a different location for configur-
               ing itself.

       -q      Run slightly more quietly.  Since this is an  interactive  pro-
               gram,  I  don't  recommend  this  option  since it only removes
               information from the output that is designed to help you.

       -d      Turn on lots of debugging output.

       -D      Add even more debugging output in the  form  of  Perl  variable
               dumps.


NEAT TRICKS
       snmpconf -g basic_setup
              Have I mentioned this command enough yet?  It's designed to walk
              someone through  an  initial  setup  for  the  snmpd(8)  daemon.
              Really, you should try it.

       snmpconf -R /usr/local/snmp/snmpd.conf -a -f snmpd.conf
              Automatically reads in an snmpd.conf file (for example) and adds
              comments to them describing what each token does.  Try it.  It's
              cool.

NOTES
       snmpconf  is  actually a very generic utility that could be easily con-
       figured to help construct just about any kind  of  configuration  file.
       Its default configuration set of files are SNMP based.

SEE ALSO
       snmpd(8), snmp_config(5), snmp.conf(5), snmpd.conf(5)



V5.6.2.1                          25 Feb 2003                      SNMPCONF(1)
