SRM(1)                                                                  SRM(1)



NAME
       srm - securely remove files or directories

SYNOPSIS
       srm [OPTION]... FILE...

DESCRIPTION
       srm  removes each specified file by overwriting, renaming, and truncat-
       ing it before unlinking. This prevents other people from undeleting  or
       recovering any information about the file from the command line.

       srm,  like  every  program  that  uses the getopt function to parse its
       arguments, lets you use the -- option to indicate  that  all  following
       arguments are non-options.  To remove a file called '-f' in the current
       directory, you could type either "srm -- -f" or "srm ./-f".

OPTIONS
       -d, --directory
              ignored (for compatibility with rm(1))

       -f, --force
              ignore nonexistent files, never prompt

       -i, --interactive
              prompt before any removal

       -r, -R, --recursive
              remove the contents of directories recursively

       -s, --simple
              only overwrite with a single pass of random data

       -m, --medium
              overwrite the file with 7 US DoD compliant passes  (0xF6,  0x00,
              0xFF, random, 0x00, 0xFF, random)

       -z, --zero
              after overwriting, zero blocks used by file

       -n, --nounlink
              overwrite file, but do not rename or unlink it

       -v, --verbose
              explain what is being done

       --help display this help and exit

       --version
              output version information and exit

NOTES
       srm can not remove write protected files owned by another user, regard-
       less of the permissions on the directory containing the file.

       The -s option overrides the -m option, if both are present.  If neither
       is specified, the 35-pass Gutmann algorithm is used.

       Development  and  discussion  of  srm is carried out at <http://source-
       forge.net/project/?group_id=3297>,  which  is   also   accessible   via
       <http://srm.sourceforge.net>.

SEE ALSO
       rm(1)



Mac OS X                       20 September 2004                        SRM(1)
