
TFTP(1)                   BSD General Commands Manual                  TFTP(1)

NAME
     tftp -- trivial file transfer program

SYNOPSIS
     tftp [-e] [host] [port]

DESCRIPTION
     The tftp utility is the user interface to the Internet TFTP (Trivial File
     Transfer Protocol), which allows users to transfer files to and from a
     remote machine.  The remote host (and optional port) may be specified on
     the command line, in which case tftp uses host (and port) as the default
     for future transfers (see the connect command below).

     The optional -e argument sets a binary transfer mode as well as setting
     the extended options as if tout, tsize, and blksize 65464, had been
     given.

COMMANDS
     Once tftp is running, it issues the prompt `tftp>' and recognizes the
     following commands:

     ? command-name ...
              Print help information.

     ascii    Shorthand for mode ascii.

     binary   Shorthand for mode binary.

     blksize blk-size
              Set the tftp blksize option to blk-size octets (8-bit bytes).
              Since the number of blocks in a tftp get or put is 65535, the
              default block size of 512 bytes only allows a maximum of just
              under 32 megabytes to be transferred.  The value given for
              blk-size must be between 8 and 65464, inclusive.  Note that many
              servers will not respect this option.

     connect host-name [port]
              Set the host (and optionally port) for transfers.  Note that the
              TFTP protocol, unlike the FTP protocol, does not maintain con-
              nections between transfers; thus, the connect command does not
              actually create a connection, but merely remembers what host is
              to be used for transfers.  You do not have to use the connect
              command; the remote host can be specified as part of the get or
              put commands.

     get filename
     get remotename localname
     get file1 file2 ... fileN
              Get one or more files from the remote host.  When using the host
              argument, the host will be used as default host for future
              transfers.  If localname is specified, the file is stored
              locally as localname, otherwise the original filename is used.
              Note that it is not possible to download two files at a time,
              only one, three, or more than three files, at a time.

              To specify an IPv6 numeric address for a host, wrap it using
              square brackets like ``[3ffe:2900:e00c:ffee::1234]:file'' to
              disambiguate the colons used in the IPv6 address from the colon
              separating the host and the filename.

     mode transfer-mode
              Set the mode for transfers; transfer-mode may be one of ascii or
              binary.  The default is ascii.

     put file
     put localfile remotefile
     put file1 file2 ... fileN remote-directory
              Put a file or set of files to the specified remote file or
              directory.  The destination can be in one of two forms: a file-
              name on the remote host, if the host has already been specified,
              or a string of the form hosts:filename to specify both a host
              and filename at the same time.  If the latter form is used, the
              hostname specified becomes the default for future transfers.
              When remotename is specified, the file is stored remotely as
              remotename, otherwise the original filename is used.  If the
              remote-directory argument is used, the remote host is assumed to
              be a UNIX machine.  To specify an IPv6 numeric address for a
              host, see the example under the get command.

     quit     Exit tftp.  An end of file also exits.

     rexmt retransmission-timeout
              Set the per-packet retransmission timeout, in seconds.

     status   Show current status.

     timeout total-transmission-timeout
              Set the total transmission timeout, in seconds.

     tout     Toggle the tftp "timeout" option.  If enabled, the client will
              pass its retransmission-timeout to the server.  Note that many
              servers will not respect this option.

     trace    Toggle packet tracing.

     tsize    Toggle the tftp "tsize" option.  If enabled, the client will
              pass and request the filesize of a file at the beginning of a
              file transfer.  Note that many servers will not respect this
              option.

     verbose  Toggle verbose mode.

HISTORY
     The tftp command appeared in 4.3BSD.  IPv6 support was implemented by
     WIDE/KAME project in 1999.  TFTP options were implemented by Wasabi Sys-
     tems, Inc., in 2003, and first appeared in NetBSD 2.0.

SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
     Because there is no user-login or validation within the TFTP protocol,
     the remote site will probably have some sort of file-access restrictions
     in place.  The exact methods are specific to each site and therefore dif-
     ficult to document here.

     Files larger than 33488896 octets (65535 blocks) cannot be transferred
     without client and server supporting blocksize negotiation (RFC1783).

BSD                              June 11, 2003                             BSD
