tic(1M)                                                                tic(1M)



NAME
       tic - the terminfo entry-description compiler

SYNOPSIS
       tic  [-1CGILNTUVacfgrstx]  [-e  names]  [-o  dir]  [-R  subset] [-v[n]]
       [-w[n]] file

DESCRIPTION
       The command tic translates a terminfo file from source format into com-
       piled  format.   The  compiled  format  is  necessary  for use with the
       library routines in ncurses(3X).

       The results are  normally  placed  in  the  system  terminfo  directory
       /usr/share/terminfo.  There are two ways to change this behavior.

       First, you may override the system default by setting the variable TER-
       MINFO in your shell environment to a valid (existing) directory name.

       Secondly, if tic cannot get access to /usr/share/terminfo or your  TER-
       MINFO  directory,  it  looks for the directory $HOME/.terminfo; if that
       directory exists, the entry is placed there.

       Libraries that read terminfo entries are expected to check for  a  TER-
       MINFO  directory first, look at $HOME/.terminfo if TERMINFO is not set,
       and finally look in /usr/share/terminfo.

       -1     restricts the output to a single column

       -a     tells tic to retain commented-out capabilities rather than  dis-
              carding them.  Capabilities are commented by prefixing them with
              a period.  This sets the -x option, because it treats  the  com-
              mented-out  entries  as  user-defined  names.   If the source is
              termcap, accept the 2-character names  required  by  version  6.
              Otherwise these are ignored.

       -C     Force  source translation to termcap format.  Note: this differs
              from the -C option of infocmp(1M) in that  it  does  not  merely
              translate capability names, but also translates terminfo strings
              to termcap format.  Capabilities that are not  translatable  are
              left  in  the entry under their terminfo names but commented out
              with two preceding dots.

       -c     tells tic to only check file for errors, including syntax  prob-
              lems  and  bad  use  links.   If  you  specify -C (-I) with this
              option, the code will print warnings about entries which,  after
              use  resolution, are more than 1023 (4096) bytes long.  Due to a
              fixed buffer length in older termcap libraries (and a documented
              limit in terminfo), these entries may cause core dumps.

       -e names
              Limit  writes  and translations to the following comma-separated
              list of terminals.  If any name or alias of a  terminal  matches
              one  of  the  names  in  the  list, the entry will be written or
              translated as normal.  Otherwise no output will be generated for
              it.   The  option  value is interpreted as a file containing the
              list if it contains a '/'.  (Note: depending on how tic was com-
              piled, this option may require -I or -C.)

       -f     Display     complex     terminfo     strings    which    contain
              if/then/else/endif expressions indented for readability.

       -G     Display constant literals in  decimal  form  rather  than  their
              character equivalents.

       -g     Display  constant  character literals in quoted form rather than
              their decimal equivalents.

       -I     Force source translation to terminfo format.

       -L     Force source translation to terminfo format  using  the  long  C
              variable names listed in <term.h>

       -N     Disable smart defaults.  Normally, when translating from termcap
              to terminfo, the compiler makes a number  of  assumptions  about
              the   defaults   of   string  capabilities  reset1_string,  car-
              riage_return,  cursor_left,  cursor_down,  scroll_forward,  tab,
              newline, key_backspace, key_left, and key_down, then attempts to
              use obsolete termcap capabilities to deduce correct values.   It
              also normally suppresses output of obsolete termcap capabilities
              such as bs.  This option forces a more literal translation  that
              also preserves the obsolete capabilities.

       -odir  Write  compiled  entries to given directory.  Overrides the TER-
              MINFO environment variable.

       -Rsubset
              Restrict output to a given subset.  This option is for use  with
              archaic  versions  of  terminfo  like  those on SVr1, Ultrix, or
              HP/UX that do not support the full set of SVR4/XSI  Curses  ter-
              minfo;  and  outright  broken ports like AIX 3.x that have their
              own extensions incompatible with  SVr4/XSI.   Available  subsets
              are "SVr1", "Ultrix", "HP", "BSD" and "AIX"; see terminfo(5) for
              details.

       -r     Force entry resolution (so there are no remaining  tc  capabili-
              ties)  even  when doing translation to termcap format.  This may
              be needed if you are preparing a  termcap  file  for  a  termcap
              library  (such as GNU termcap through version 1.3 or BSD termcap
              through 4.3BSD) that does not handle  multiple  tc  capabilities
              per entry.

       -s     Summarize  the  compile  by  showing  the  directory  into which
              entries are written, and the number of entries  which  are  com-
              piled.

       -T     eliminates  size-restrictions  on  the  generated text.  This is
              mainly useful for  testing  and  analysis,  since  the  compiled
              descriptions  are limited (e.g., 1023 for termcap, 4096 for ter-
              minfo).

       -t     tells tic to discard commented-out capabilities.  Normally  when
              translating  from  terminfo to termcap, untranslatable capabili-
              ties are commented-out.

       -U   tells tic to not post-process the data after  parsing  the  source
            file.  Normally, it infers data which is commonly missing in older
            terminfo data, or in termcaps.

       -V   reports the version of ncurses which was used in this program, and
            exits.

       -vn  specifies that (verbose) output be written to standard error trace
            information showing tic's progress.  The optional parameter n is a
            number  from  1  to 10, inclusive, indicating the desired level of
            detail of information.  If n is omitted, the default level  is  1.
            If  n  is  specified  and  greater  than 1, the level of detail is
            increased.

       -wn  specifies the width of the output.  The parameter is optional.  If
            it is omitted, it defaults to 60.

       -x   Treat  unknown capabilities as user-defined.  That is, if you sup-
            ply a capability name which tic does not recognize, it will  infer
            its  type  (boolean, number or string) from the syntax and make an
            extended table entry for that.   User-defined  capability  strings
            whose name begins with ``k'' are treated as function keys.

       file contains one or more terminfo terminal descriptions in source for-
            mat [see terminfo(5)].  Each description in the file describes the
            capabilities of a particular terminal.

       The debug flag levels are as follows:

       1      Names of files created and linked

       2      Information related to the ``use'' facility

       3      Statistics from the hashing algorithm

       5      String-table memory allocations

       7      Entries into the string-table

       8      List of tokens encountered by scanner

       9      All values computed in construction of the hash table

       If the debug level n is not given, it is taken to be one.

       All  but  one  of  the capabilities recognized by tic are documented in
       terminfo(5).  The exception is the use capability.

       When a use=entry-name field is discovered in a terminal entry currently
       being  compiled,  tic  reads  in the binary from /usr/share/terminfo to
       complete the entry.  (Entries created from file will be used first.  If
       the  environment  variable  TERMINFO is set, that directory is searched
       instead of /usr/share/terminfo.)  tic duplicates  the  capabilities  in
       entry-name for the current entry, with the exception of those capabili-
       ties that explicitly are defined in the current entry.

       When an entry, e.g., entry_name_1, contains a  use=entry_name_2  field,
       any   canceled   capabilities  in  entry_name_2  must  also  appear  in
       entry_name_1 before use= for  these  capabilities  to  be  canceled  in
       entry_name_1.

       If  the  environment variable TERMINFO is set, the compiled results are
       placed there instead of /usr/share/terminfo.

       Total compiled entries cannot exceed 4096 bytes.  The name field cannot
       exceed  512  bytes.   Terminal names exceeding the maximum alias length
       (32 characters on systems with long filenames, 14 characters otherwise)
       will  be  truncated  to  the maximum alias length and a warning message
       will be printed.

COMPATIBILITY
       There is  some  evidence  that  historic  tic  implementations  treated
       description  fields with no whitespace in them as additional aliases or
       short names.  This tic does not do that, but it does warn when descrip-
       tion  fields may be treated that way and check them for dangerous char-
       acters.

EXTENSIONS
       Unlike the stock SVr4 tic command,  this  implementation  can  actually
       compile termcap sources.  In fact, entries in terminfo and termcap syn-
       tax can be mixed in a single source file.  See terminfo(5) for the list
       of termcap names taken to be equivalent to terminfo names.

       The  SVr4  manual  pages  are not clear on the resolution rules for use
       capabilities.  This implementation of tic will find  use  targets  any-
       where  in  the source file, or anywhere in the file tree rooted at TER-
       MINFO (if TERMINFO is defined), or in the user's $HOME/.terminfo direc-
       tory (if it exists), or (finally) anywhere in the system's file tree of
       compiled entries.

       The error messages from this tic have the same format as  GNU  C  error
       messages, and can be parsed by GNU Emacs's compile facility.

       The  -C,  -G, -I, -N, -R, -T, -V, -a, -e, -f, -g, -o, -r, -s, -t and -x
       options are not supported under SVr4.  The SVr4 -c mode does not report
       bad use links.

       System  V  does  not  compile  entries  to  or  read  entries from your
       $HOME/.terminfo directory unless TERMINFO is explicitly set to it.

FILES
       /usr/share/terminfo/?/*
            Compiled terminal description database.

SEE ALSO
       infocmp(1M), captoinfo(1M), infotocap(1M),  toe(1M),  curses(3X),  ter-
       minfo(5).

       This describes ncurses version 5.7 (patch 20081102).



                                                                       tic(1M)
