TKPP(1)               User Contributed Perl Documentation              TKPP(1)



NAME
       tkpp - frontend to pp written in Perl/Tk.

SYNOPSIS
       You just have to execute command line : tkpp

DESCRIPTION
       Tkpp is a GUI frontend to pp, which can turn perl scripts into stand-
       alone PAR files, perl scripts or executables.

       You can save command line generated, load and save your Tkpp
       configuration GUI.  Below is a short explanation of tkpp GUI.

   Menu
       File -> Save command line

       When you build or display command line in the Tkpp GUI, you can save
       the command line in a separated file. This command line can be executed
       from a terminal.

       File -> Save configuration

       You can save your GUI configuration (all options used) to load and
       execute it next time.

       File -> Load configuration

       Load your saved file configuration. All saved options will be set in
       the GUI.

       File -> Exit

       Close Tkpp.

       Help -> Tkpp documentation

       Display POD documentation of Tkpp.

       Help -> pp documentation

       Display POD documentation of pp.

       Help -> About Tkpp

       Display version and authors of Tkpp.

       Help -> About pp

       Display version and authors of pp ( pp --version).

   Tabs GUI
       There are five tabs in GUI : General Options, Information, Size, Other
       Options and Output.

       All tabs contain all options which can be used with pp. All default pp
       options are kept.  You can now set as you want the options. When your
       have finished, you can display the command line or start building your
       package. You will have the output tab to see error or verbose messages.

NOTES
       In Win32 system, the building is executed in a separate process, then
       the GUI is not frozen.

       The first time you use Tkpp, it will tell you to install some CPAN
       modules to use the GUI (like Tk, Tk::ColoredButton...).

SEE ALSO
       pp, PAR

AUTHORS
       Tkpp was written by Doug Gruber and rewrite by Djibril Ousmanou.  In
       the event this application breaks, you get both pieces :-)

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2011 by Doug Gruber
       <doug(a)dougthug.com>, Audrey Tang <cpan@audreyt.org> and Djibril
       Ousmanou <djibel(a)cpan.org>.

       Neither this program nor the associated pp program impose any licensing
       restrictions on files generated by their execution, in accordance with
       the 8th article of the Artistic License:

           "Aggregation of this Package with a commercial distribution is
           always permitted provided that the use of this Package is embedded;
           that is, when no overt attempt is made to make this Package's
           interfaces visible to the end user of the commercial distribution.
           Such use shall not be construed as a distribution of this Package."

       Therefore, you are absolutely free to place any license on the
       resulting executable, as long as the packed 3rd-party libraries are
       also available under the Artistic License.

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the same terms as Perl itself.

       See <http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>



perl v5.18.2                      2012-07-16                           TKPP(1)
