toe(1M)                                                                toe(1M)



NAME
       toe - table of (terminfo) entries

SYNOPSIS
       toe [-v[n]] [-ahuUV] file...

DESCRIPTION
       With no options, toe lists all available terminal types by primary name
       with descriptions.   File  arguments  specify  the  directories  to  be
       scanned;  if  no such arguments are given, your default terminfo direc-
       tory is scanned.  If you also specify the -h option, a directory header
       will be issued as each directory is entered.

       There are other options intended for use by terminfo file maintainers:

       -a     report  on  all  of  the  terminal databases which ncurses would
              search, rather than only the first one that it finds.

       -u file
              says to write a report to the standard output, listing dependen-
              cies in the given terminfo/termcap source file.  The report con-
              denses the `use' relation: each line  consists  of  the  primary
              name  of  a  terminal  that  has use capabilities, followed by a
              colon, followed by the whitespace-separated primary names of all
              terminals  which  occur in those use capabilities, followed by a
              newline

       -U file
              says to write a report to the standard output,  listing  reverse
              dependencies  in  the  given  terminfo/termcap source file.  The
              report reverses the `use' relation: each line  consists  of  the
              primary name of a terminal that occurs in use capabilities, fol-
              lowed by a colon, followed by the  whitespace-separated  primary
              names  of  all  terminals which depend on it, followed by a new-
              line.

       -vn    specifies that (verbose) output be written  to  standard  error,
              showing  toe's  progress.   The optional parameter n is a number
              from 1 to 10, interpreted as for tic(1M).

       -V     reports the version of ncurses which was used in  this  program,
              and exits.

FILES
       /usr/share/terminfo/?/*
            Compiled terminal description database.

SEE ALSO
       tic(1M),  infocmp(1M),  captoinfo(1M),  infotocap(1M), curses(3X), ter-
       minfo(5).

       This describes ncurses version 5.7 (patch 20081102).



                                                                       toe(1M)
