uucp(1)                                                                uucp(1)



NAME
       uucp - Unix to Unix copy

SYNOPSIS
       uucp [ options ] source-file destination-file

       uucp [ options ] source-file... destination-directory

DESCRIPTION
       The  uucp  command copies files between systems.  Each file argument is
       either a pathname on the local machine or is of the form

              system!path

       which is interpreted as being on a remote system.  In the  first  form,
       the contents of the first file are copied to the second.  In the second
       form, each source file is copied into the destination directory.

       A file be transferred to or from system2 via system1 by using

              system1!system2!path.


       Any pathname that does not begin with / or ~ will be  appended  to  the
       current  directory  (unless  the -W or --noexpand option is used); this
       resulting path will not necessarily exist on a remote system.  A  path-
       name  beginning  with a simple ~ starts at the UUCP public directory; a
       pathname beginning with ~name starts at the home directory of the named
       user.   The ~ is interpreted on the appropriate system.  Note that some
       shells will interpret a simple ~ to the  local  home  directory  before
       uucp sees it; to avoid this the ~ must be quoted.

       Shell metacharacters ? * [ ] are interpreted on the appropriate system,
       assuming they are quoted to prevent the shell  from  interpreting  them
       first.

       The  copy  does  not  take  place immediately, but is queued up for the
       uucico (8) daemon; the daemon is started immediately unless the  -r  or
       --nouucico switch is given.  In any case, the next time the remote sys-
       tem is called the file(s) will be copied.

OPTIONS
       The following options may be given to uucp.

       -c, --nocopy
            Do not copy local source files to the spool  directory.   If  they
            are  removed  before being processed by the uucico (8) daemon, the
            copy will fail.  The files must be readable by the uucico (8) dae-
            mon, and by the invoking user.

       -C, --copy
            Copy  local  source  files  to  the  spool directory.  This is the
            default.

       -d, --directories
            Create all necessary directories when doing the copy.  This is the
            default.

       -f, --nodirectories
            If  any  necessary  directories  do  not exist for the destination
            path, abort the copy.

       -R, --recursive
            If any of the source file names are directories, copy  their  con-
            tents  recursively  to  the  destination  (which  must itself be a
            directory).

       -g grade, --grade grade
            Set the grade of the file transfer  command.   Jobs  of  a  higher
            grade are executed first.  Grades run 0 ... 9 A ... Z a ... z from
            high to low.

       -m, --mail
            Report completion or failure of the file transfer by mail (1).

       -n user, --notify user
            Report completion or failure of the file transfer by mail  (1)  to
            the named user on the remote system.

       -r, --nouucico
            Do  not  start  uucico (8) daemon immediately; merely queue up the
            file transfer for later execution.

       -j, --jobid
            Print jobid on standard output.  The job may be later cancelled by
            passing  the jobid to the -k switch of uustat (1).  It is possible
            for some complex operations to produce more  than  one  jobid,  in
            which case each will be printed on a separate line.  For example
                 uucp sys1!~user1/file1 sys2!~user2/file2 ~user3
            will  generate  two separate jobs, one for the system sys1 and one
            for the system sys2.

       -W, --noexpand
            Do not prepend remote relative path names with the current  direc-
            tory.

       -t, --uuto
            This  option  is used by the uuto shell script.  It causes uucp to
            interpret the final argument as system!user.  The file(s) are sent
            to  ~/receive/USER/LOCAL  on the remote system, where USER is from
            the final argument and LOCAL is the local UUCP system name.  Also,
            uucp will act as though --notify user were specified.

       -x type, --debug type
            Turn  on particular debugging types.  The following types are rec-
            ognized: abnormal, chat, handshake, uucp-proto, proto, port,  con-
            fig,  spooldir,  execute, incoming, outgoing.  Only abnormal, con-
            fig, spooldir and execute are meaningful for uucp.

            Multiple types may be given, separated by commas, and the  --debug
            option  may  appear  multiple  times.  A number may also be given,
            which will turn on that many types from the  foregoing  list;  for
            example, --debug 2 is equivalent to --debug abnormal,chat.

       -I file, --config file
            Set  configuration file to use.  This option may not be available,
            depending upon how uucp was compiled.

       -v, --version
            Report version information and exit.

       --help
            Print a help message and exit.

SEE ALSO
       mail(1), uux(1), uustat(1), uucico(8)

BUGS
       Some of the options are dependent on the capabilities of the uucico (8)
       daemon on the remote system.

       The  -n  and  -m switches do not work when transferring a file from one
       remote system to another.

       File modes are not preserved, except for the execute bit.  The  result-
       ing file is owned by the uucp user.

AUTHOR
       Ian Lance Taylor <ian@airs.com>



                               Taylor UUCP 1.07                        uucp(1)
