uustat(1)                                                            uustat(1)



NAME
       uustat - UUCP status inquiry and control

SYNOPSIS
       uustat -a

       uustat --all

       uustat  [  -eKRiMNQ ] [ -sS system ] [ -uU user ] [ -cC command ] [ -oy
       hours ] [ -B lines ] [ --executions ] [ --kill-all ] [ --rejuvenate-all
       ]  [ --prompt ] [ --mail ] [ --notify ] [ --no-list ] [ --system system
       ] [ --not-system system ] [ --user user ] [ --not-user user ] [  --com-
       mand  command  ]  [  --not-command  command  ] [ --older-than hours ] [
       --younger-than hours ] [ --mail-lines lines ]

       uustat [ -kr jobid ] [ --kill jobid ] [ --rejuvenate jobid ]

       uustat -q [ -sS system ] [ -oy hours ] [ --system system ] [ --not-sys-
       tem system ] [ --older-than hours ] [ --younger-than hours ]

       uustat --list [ -sS system ] [ -oy hours ] [ --system system ] [ --not-
       system system ] [ --older-than hours ] [ --younger-than hours ]

       uustat -m

       uustat --status

       uustat -p

       uustat --ps

DESCRIPTION
       The uustat command can display  various  types  of  status  information
       about  the  UUCP  system.   It can also be used to cancel or rejuvenate
       requests made by uucp (1) or uux (1).

       By default uustat displays all jobs queued up for the invoking user, as
       if given the --user option with the appropriate argument.

       If any of the -a, --all, -e, --executions, -s, --system, -S, --not-sys-
       tem, -u, --user, -U, --not-user, -c, --command, -C, --not-command,  -o,
       --older-than, -y, --younger-than options are given, then all jobs which
       match the combined specifications are displayed.

       The -K or --kill-all option may be used to kill off a selected group of
       jobs, such as all jobs more than 7 days old.

OPTIONS
       The following options may be given to uustat.

       -a, --all
            List all queued file transfer requests.

       -e, --executions
            List  queued  execution  requests rather than queued file transfer
            requests.  Queued execution requests are processed  by  uuxqt  (8)
            rather  than uucico (8).  Queued execution requests may be waiting
            for some file to be transferred from a remote  system.   They  are
            created by an invocation of uux (1).

       -s system, --system system
            List  all  jobs queued up for the named system.  These options may
            be specified multiple times, in which case all jobs  for  all  the
            systems  will  be  listed.   If  used with --list only the systems
            named will be listed.

       -S system, --not-system system
            List all jobs queued for systems other than the one named.   These
            options  may  be  specified  multiple times, in which case no jobs
            from any of the specified systems will be listed.   If  used  with
            --list  only  the systems not named will be listed.  These options
            may not be used with -s or --system.

       -u user, --user user
            List all jobs queued up for the named user.  These options may  be
            specified multiple times, in which case all jobs for all the users
            will be listed.

       -U user, --not-user user
            List all jobs queued up for users other than the one named.  These
            options  may  be  specified  multiple times, in which case no jobs
            from any of the specified users will be listed.  These options may
            not be used with -u or --user.

       -c command, --command command
            List  all  jobs requesting the execution of the named command.  If
            command is ALL this will list all jobs requesting the execution of
            some  command  (as  opposed to simply requesting a file transfer).
            These options may be specified multiple times, in which  case  all
            jobs requesting any of the commands will be listed.

       -C command, --not-command command
            List  all jobs requesting execution of some command other than the
            named command, or, if command is ALL, list all  jobs  that  simply
            request a file transfer (as opposed to requesting the execution of
            some command).  These options may be specified multiple times,  in
            which case no job requesting one of the specified commands will be
            listed.  These options may not be used with -c or --command.

       -o hours, --older-than hours
            List all queued jobs older than the given  number  of  hours.   If
            used  with  --list only systems whose oldest job is older than the
            given number of hours will be listed.

       -y hours, --younger-than hours
            List all queued jobs younger than the given number of  hours.   If
            used with --list only systems whose oldest job is younger than the
            given number of hours will be listed.

       -k jobid, --kill jobid
            Kill the named job.  The job id is shown  by  the  default  output
            format,  as well as by the -j or --jobid option to uucp (1) or uux
            (1).  A job may only be killed by the user who created the job, or
            by  the  UUCP  administrator  or  the superuser.  The -k or --kill
            options may be used multiple times on the  command  line  to  kill
            several jobs.

       -r jobid, --rejuvenate jobid
            Rejuvenate  the  named  job.   This  will  mark  it as having been
            invoked at the current time,  affecting  the  output  of  the  -o,
            --older-than, -y, or --younger-than options and preserving it from
            any automated cleanup daemon.  The job id is shown by the  default
            output format, as well as by the -j or --jobid options to uucp (1)
            or uux (1).  A job may only be rejuvenated by the user who created
            the job, or by the UUCP administrator or the superuser.  The -r or
            --rejuvenate options may be used multiple  times  on  the  command
            line to rejuvenate several jobs.

       -q, --list
            Display  the  status of commands, executions and conversations for
            all remote systems for which commands or  executions  are  queued.
            The  -s,  --system,  -S,  --not-system,  -o, --older-than, -y, and
            --younger-than options may be used to restrict the  systems  which
            are  listed.   Systems  for  which  no  commands or executions are
            queued will never be listed.

       -m, --status
            Display the status of conversations for all remote systems.

       -p, --ps
            Display the status of all processes holding UUCP locks on  systems
            or ports.

       -i, --prompt
            For  each  listed  job, prompt whether to kill the job or not.  If
            the first character of the input line is y or Y the  job  will  be
            killed.

       -K, --kill-all
            Automatically  kill each listed job.  This can be useful for auto-
            matic cleanup scripts, in conjunction with the --mail and --notify
            options.

       -R, --rejuvenate-all
            Automatically  rejuvenate  each  listed job.  This may not be used
            with --kill-all.

       -M, --mail
            For each listed job, send mail to the UUCP administrator.  If  the
            job  is  killed (due to --kill-all or --prompt with an affirmative
            response) the mail will indicate that.  A comment specified by the
            --comment option may be included.  If the job is an execution, the
            initial portion of its standard input will be included in the mail
            message;  the  number  of  lines  to  include  may be set with the
            --mail-lines option (the default is 100).  If the  standard  input
            contains null characters, it is assumed to be a binary file and is
            not included.

       -N, --notify
            For each listed job, send mail to the user who requested the  job.
            The mail is identical to that sent by the -M or --mail options.

       -W comment, --comment comment
            Specify a comment to be included in mail sent with the -M, --mail,
            -N, or --notify options.

       -B lines, --mail-lines lines
            When the -M, --mail, -N, or --notify options are used to send mail
            about  an  execution with standard input, this option controls the
            number of lines of standard input to include in the message.   The
            default is 100.

       -Q, --no-list
            Do  not actually list the job, but only take any actions indicated
            by the -i, --prompt, -K, --kill-all, -M, --mail,  -N  or  --notify
            options.

       -x type, --debug type
            Turn  on particular debugging types.  The following types are rec-
            ognized: abnormal, chat, handshake, uucp-proto, proto, port,  con-
            fig,  spooldir,  execute, incoming, outgoing.  Only abnormal, con-
            fig, spooldir and execute are meaningful for uustat.

            Multiple types may be given, separated by commas, and the  --debug
            option  may  appear  multiple  times.  A number may also be given,
            which will turn on that many types from the  foregoing  list;  for
            example, --debug 2 is equivalent to --debug abnormal,chat.

       -I file, --config file
            Set  configuration file to use.  This option may not be available,
            depending upon how uustat was compiled.

       -v, --version
            Report version information and exit.

       --help
            Print a help message and exit.

EXAMPLES
       uustat --all
       Display status of all jobs.  A sample output line is as follows:
            bugsA027h bugs ian 04-01 13:50 Executing rmail ian@airs.com (sending 1283 bytes)
       The format is
            jobid system user queue-date command (size)
       The jobid may be passed to the --kill  or  --rejuvenate  options.   The
       size indicates how much data is to be transferred to the remote system,
       and is absent for a file receive request.  The --system,  --not-system,
       --user,   --not-user,   --command,   --not-command,  --older-than,  and
       --younger-than options may be used to control which jobs are listed.

       uustat --executions
       Display status of queued up execution requests.  A sample  output  line
       is as follows:
            bugs bugs!ian 05-20 12:51 rmail ian
       The format is
            system requestor queue-date command
       The  --system,  --not-system, --user, --not-user, --command, --not-com-
       mand, --older-than, and --younger-than options may be used  to  control
       which requests are listed.

       uustat --list
       Display  status for all systems with queued up commands.  A sample out-
       put line is as follows:
            bugs            4C (1 hour)   0X (0 secs) 04-01 14:45 Dial failed
       This indicates the system, the number of queued commands,  the  age  of
       the  oldest  queued command, the number of queued local executions, the
       age of the oldest queued execution, the date of the last  conversation,
       and the status of that conversation.

       uustat --status
       Display  conversation  status  for all remote systems.  A sample output
       line is as follows:
            bugs           04-01 15:51 Conversation complete
       This indicates the system, the date of the last conversation,  and  the
       status  of  that conversation.  If the last conversation failed, uustat
       will indicate how many attempts have been made to call the system.   If
       the  retry  period is currently preventing calls to that system, uustat
       also displays the time when the next call will be permitted.

       uustat --ps
       Display the status of all processes holding  UUCP  locks.   The  output
       format  is  system  dependent,  as uustat simply invokes ps (1) on each
       process holding a lock.

            uustat --command rmail --older-than 168 --kill-all --no-list --mail --notify --comment "Queued for over 1 week"
       This will kill all rmail commands that have been queued up waiting  for
       delivery for over 1 week (168 hours).  For each such command, mail will
       be sent both to the UUCP administrator and to the  user  who  requested
       the  rmail  execution.   The  mail message sent will include the string
       given by the --comment option.  The --no-list option  prevents  any  of
       the jobs from being listed on the terminal, so any output from the pro-
       gram will be error messages.

SEE ALSO
       ps(1), rmail(1), uucp(1), uux(1), uucico(8), uuxqt(8)

AUTHOR
       Ian Lance Taylor (ian@airs.com)



                               Taylor UUCP 1.07                      uustat(1)
