uux(1)                                                                  uux(1)



NAME
       uux - Remote command execution over UUCP

SYNOPSIS
       uux [ options ] command

DESCRIPTION
       The  uux command is used to execute a command on a remote system, or to
       execute a command on the local system using files from remote  systems.
       The  command  is  not executed immediately; the request is queued until
       the uucico (8) daemon calls the system and executes it.  The daemon  is
       started  automatically  unless  one  of the -r or --nouucico options is
       given.

       The actual command execution is done by the uuxqt (8) daemon.

       File arguments can be gathered from remote  systems  to  the  execution
       system,  as  can  standard input.  Standard output may be directed to a
       file on a remote system.

       The command name may be preceded by a system name followed by an excla-
       mation point if it is to be executed on a remote system.  An empty sys-
       tem name is taken as the local system.

       Each argument that contains an exclamation point is treated as naming a
       file.  The system which the file is on is before the exclamation point,
       and the pathname on that system follows it.  An empty  system  name  is
       taken  as  the  local system; this must be used to transfer a file to a
       command being executed on a remote system.  If the path  is  not  abso-
       lute, it will be appended to the current working directory on the local
       system; the result may not be meaningful on the remote system.  A path-
       name may begin with ~/, in which case it is relative to the UUCP public
       directory (usually /usr/spool/uucppublic or  /var/spool/uucppublic)  on
       the  appropriate  system.   A  pathname may begin with ~name/, in which
       case it is relative to the home directory of  the  named  user  on  the
       appropriate system.

       Standard  input  and  output  may be redirected as usual; the pathnames
       used may contain exclamation points to indicate that they are on remote
       systems.   Note  that the redirection characters must be quoted so that
       they are passed to uux rather than interpreted by  the  shell.   Append
       redirection (>>) does not work.

       All  specified  files  are  gathered  together  into a single directory
       before execution of the command begins.  This means that each file must
       have a distinct base name.  For example,
            uux 'sys1!diff sys2!~user1/foo sys3!~user2/foo >!foo.diff'
       will  fail  because  both files will be copied to sys1 and stored under
       the name foo.

       Arguments may be quoted  by  parentheses  to  avoid  interpretation  of
       exclamation  points.  This is useful when executing the uucp command on
       a remote system.

       A request to execute an empty command (e.g., uux sys!)  will  create  a
       poll file for the specified system.

       The  exit  status  of  uux is one of the codes found in the header file
       sysexits.h.  In particular, EX_OK ( 0 ) indicates success, and EX_TEMP-
       FAIL ( 75 ) indicates a temporary failure.

OPTIONS
       The following options may be given to uux.

       -, -p, --stdin
            Read  standard input and use it as the standard input for the com-
            mand to be executed.

       -c, --nocopy
            Do not copy local files to  the  spool  directory.   This  is  the
            default.  If they are removed before being processed by the uucico
            (8) daemon, the copy will fail.  The files must be readable by the
            uucico (8) daemon, as well as the by the invoker of uux.

       -C, --copy
            Copy local files to the spool directory.

       -l, --link
            Link  local  files into the spool directory.  If a file can not be
            linked because it is on a different  device,  it  will  be  copied
            unless  one  of  the -c or --nocopy options also appears (in other
            words, use  of  --link  switches  the  default  from  --nocopy  to
            --copy).   If  the files are changed before being processed by the
            uucico (8) daemon, the changed versions will be used.   The  files
            must  be  readable  by  the  uucico  (8) daemon, as well as by the
            invoker of uux.

       -g grade, --grade grade
            Set the grade of the file transfer  command.   Jobs  of  a  higher
            grade are executed first.  Grades run 0 ... 9 A ... Z a ... z from
            high to low.

       -n, --notification=no
            Do not send mail about the status of the job, even if it fails.

       -z, --notification=error
            Send mail about the status of the job if  an  error  occurs.   For
            many  uuxqt  daemons, including the Taylor UUCP uuxqt, this is the
            default action;  for  those,  --notification=error  will  have  no
            effect.   However,  some  uuxqt  daemons will send mail if the job
            succeeds unless the --notification=error option is used, and  some
            other uuxqt daemons will not send mail if the job fails unless the
            --notification=error option is used.

       -r, --nouucico
            Do not start the uucico (8) daemon immediately;  merely  queue  up
            the execution request for later processing.

       -j, --jobid
            Print  jobids  on  standard output.  A jobid will be generated for
            each file copy operation required to perform the operation.  These
            file  copies  may  be cancelled by passing the jobid to the --kill
            switch of uustat (1), which will make the execution impossible  to
            complete.

       -a address, --requestor address
            Report job status to the specified e-mail address.

       -x type, --debug type
            Turn  on particular debugging types.  The following types are rec-
            ognized: abnormal, chat, handshake, uucp-proto, proto, port,  con-
            fig,  spooldir,  execute, incoming, outgoing.  Only abnormal, con-
            fig, spooldir and execute are meaningful for uux.

            Multiple types may be given, separated by commas, and the  --debug
            option  may  appear  multiple  times.  A number may also be given,
            which will turn on that many types from the  foregoing  list;  for
            example, --debug 2 is equivalent to --debug abnormal,chat.

       -I file, --config file
            Set  configuration file to use.  This option may not be available,
            depending upon how uux was compiled.

       -v, --version
            Report version information and exit.

       --help
            Print a help message and exit.

EXAMPLES
       uux -z - sys1!rmail user1
       Execute the command ``rmail user1'' on the system sys1,  giving  it  as
       standard  input whatever is given to uux as standard input.  If a fail-
       ure occurs, send a message using mail (1).

       uux 'diff -c sys1!~user1/file1 sys2!~user2/file2 >!file.diff'
       Fetch the two named files from system sys1 and system sys2 and  execute
       diff  putting  the  result  in file.diff in the current directory.  The
       current directory must be writable by the uuxqt (8) daemon for this  to
       work.

       uux 'sys1!uucp ~user1/file1 (sys2!~user2/file2)'
       Execute uucp on the system sys1 copying file1 (on system sys1) to sys2.
       This illustrates the use of parentheses for quoting.

RESTRICTIONS
       The remote system may not permit you to execute certain commands.  Many
       remote systems only permit the execution of rmail and rnews.

       Some  of the options are dependent on the capabilities of the uuxqt (8)
       daemon on the remote system.

SEE ALSO
       mail(1), uustat(1), uucp(1), uucico(8), uuxqt(8)

BUGS
       Files can not be referenced across multiple systems.

       Too many jobids are output by --jobid, and there is no good way to can-
       cel a local execution requiring remote files.

AUTHOR
       Ian Lance Taylor (ian@airs.com)



                               Taylor UUCP 1.07                         uux(1)
