
VM_STAT(1)                BSD General Commands Manual               VM_STAT(1)

NAME
     vm_stat -- show Mach virtual memory statistics

SYNOPSIS
     vm_stat [[-c count] interval]

DESCRIPTION
     vm_stat displays Mach virtual memory statistics.  If the optional
     interval is specified, then vm_stat will display the statistics every
     interval seconds.  In this case, each line of output displays the change
     in each statistic (an interval count of 1 displays the values per sec-
     ond).  However, the first line of output following each banner displays
     the system-wide totals for each statistic.  If a count is provided, the
     command will terminate after count intervals.  The following values are
     displayed:

     Pages free
             the total number of free pages in the system.

     Pages active
             the total number of pages currently in use and pageable.

     Pages inactive
             the total number of pages on the inactive list.

     Pages speculative
             the total number of pages on the speculative list.

     Pages throttled
             the total number of pages on the throttled list (not wired but
             not pageable).

     Pages wired down
             the total number of pages wired down.  That is, pages that cannot
             be paged out.

     Pages purgeable
             the total number of purgeable pages.

     Translation faults
             the number of times the "vm_fault" routine has been called.

     Pages copy-on-write
             the number of faults that caused a page to be copied (generally
             caused by copy-on-write faults).

     Pages zero filled
             the total number of pages that have been zero-filled on demand.

     Pages reactivated
             the total number of pages that have been moved from the inactive
             list to the active list (reactivated).

     Pages purged
             the total number of pages that have been purged.

     File-backed pages
             the total number of pages that are file-backed (non-swap)

     Anonymous pages
             the total number of pages that are anonymous

     Uncompressed pages
             the total number of pages (uncompressed) held within the compres-
             sor

     Pages used by VM compressor:
             the number of pages used to store compressed VM pages.

     Pages decompressed
             the total number of pages that have been decompressed by the VM
             compressor.

     Pages compressed
             the total number of pages that have been compressed by the VM
             compressor.

     Pageins
             the total number of requests for pages from a pager (such as the
             inode pager).

     Pageouts
             the total number of pages that have been paged out.

     Swapins
             the total number of compressed pages that have been swapped out
             to disk.

     Swapouts
             the total number of compressed pages that have been swapped back
             in from disk.

     If interval is not specified, then vm_stat displays all accumulated sta-
     tistics along with the page size.

Mac OS X                        August 13, 1997                       Mac OS X
