
WHOIS(1)                  BSD General Commands Manual                 WHOIS(1)

NAME
     whois -- Internet domain name and network number directory service

SYNOPSIS
     whois [-aAbdgiIlmQrR6] [-c country-code | -h host] [-p port] name ...

DESCRIPTION
     The whois utility looks up records in the databases maintained by several
     Network Information Centers (NICs).

     The options are as follows:

     -6      Use the IPv6 Resource Center (6bone) database.  It contains net-
             work names and addresses for the IPv6 network.

     -A      Use the Asia/Pacific Network Information Center (APNIC) database.
             It contains network numbers used in East Asia, Australia, New
             Zealand, and the Pacific islands.

     -a      Use the American Registry for Internet Numbers (ARIN) database.
             It contains network numbers used in those parts of the world cov-
             ered neither by APNIC nor by RIPE.

             (Hint: All point of contact handles in the ARIN whois database
             end with "-ARIN".)

     -b      Use the Network Abuse Clearinghouse database.  It contains
             addresses to which network abuse should be reported, indexed by
             domain name.

     -c country-code
             This is the equivalent of using the -h option with an argument of
             "country-code.whois-servers.net".

     -d      Use the US Department of Defense database.  It contains points of
             contact for subdomains of .MIL.

     -g      Use the US non-military federal government database, which con-
             tains points of contact for subdomains of .GOV.

     -h host
             Use the specified host instead of the default variant.  Either a
             host name or an IP address may be specified.

             By default whois constructs the name of a whois server to use
             from the top-level domain (TLD) of the supplied (single) argu-
             ment, and appending ".whois-servers.net".  This effectively
             allows a suitable whois server to be selected automatically for a
             large number of TLDs.

             In the event that an IP address is specified, the whois server
             will default to the American Registry for Internet Numbers
             (ARIN).  If a query to ARIN references APNIC, LACNIC, or RIPE,
             that server will be queried also, provided that the -Q option is
             not specified.

             If the query is not a domain name or IP address, whois will fall
             back to whois.crsnic.net.

     -I      Use the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) database.  It
             contains network information for top-level domains.

     -i      Use the Network Solutions Registry for Internet Numbers
             (whois.networksolutions.com) database.  It contains network num-
             bers and domain contact information for most of .COM, .NET, .ORG
             and .EDU domains.

             NOTE!  The registration of these domains is now done by a number
             of independent and competing registrars.  This database holds no
             information on domains registered by organizations other than
             Network Solutions, Inc.  Also, note that the InterNIC database
             (whois.internic.net) is no longer handled by Network Solutions,
             Inc.  For details, see http://www.internic.net/.

             (Hint: Contact information, identified by the term handle, can be
             looked up by prefixing "handle " to the NIC handle in the query.)

     -l      Use the Latin American and Caribbean IP address Regional Registry
             (LACNIC) database.  It contains network numbers used in much of
             Latin America and the Caribbean.

     -m      Use the Route Arbiter Database (RADB) database.  It contains
             route policy specifications for a large number of operators' net-
             works.

     -p port
             Connect to the whois server on port.  If this option is not spec-
             ified, whois defaults to port 43.

     -Q      Do a quick lookup.  This means that whois will not attempt to
             lookup the name in the authoritative whois server (if one is
             listed).  This option has no effect when combined with any other
             options.

     -R      Use the Russia Network Information Center (RIPN) database.  It
             contains network numbers and domain contact information for sub-
             domains of .RU.  This option is deprecated; use the -c option
             with an argument of "RU" instead.

     -r      Use the R'eseaux IP Europ'eens (RIPE) database.  It contains net-
             work numbers and domain contact information for Europe.

     The operands specified to whois are treated independently and may be used
     as queries on different whois servers.

EXAMPLES
     Most types of data, such as domain names and IP addresses, can be used as
     arguments to whois without any options, and whois will choose the correct
     whois server to query.  Some exceptions, where whois will not be able to
     handle data correctly, are detailed below.

     To obtain contact information about an administrator located in the Rus-
     sian TLD domain "RU", use the -c option as shown in the following exam-
     ple, where CONTACT-ID is substituted with the actual contact identifier.

           whois -c RU CONTACT-ID

     (Note: This example is specific to the TLD "RU", but other TLDs can be
     queried by using a similar syntax.)

     The following example demonstrates how to obtain information about an
     IPv6 address or hostname using the -6 option, which directs the query to
     6bone.

           whois -6 IPv6-IP-Address

     The following example demonstrates how to query a whois server using a
     non-standard port, where ``query-data'' is the query to be sent to
     ``whois.example.com'' on port ``rwhois'' (written numerically as 4321).

           whois -h whois.example.com -p rwhois query-data

SEE ALSO
     Ken Harrenstien and Vic White, NICNAME/WHOIS, 1 March 1982, RFC 812.

HISTORY
     The whois command appeared in 4.3BSD.

BSD                              June 14, 2004                             BSD
