wsgen(1)                                                              wsgen(1)



NAME
       wsgen - JAX-WS 2.0


SYNOPSIS
       wsgen [options] SEI

DESCRIPTION
       The  wsgen  tool generates JAX-WS portable artifacts used in JAX-WS web
       services. The tool reads a web service  endpoint  implementation  class
       (SEI)  and generates all the required artifacts for web service deploy-
       ment, and invocation.

OPTIONS
       -classpath path
              Specify where to find input class files

       -cp path
              Same as -classpath

       -d directory
              Specify where to place generated output files

       -extension
              allow vendor extensions  (functionality  not  specified  by  the
              specification).   Use  of  extensions may result in applications
              that are not portable or may not interoperate with other  imple-
              mentations.

       -help  Display help

       -keep  Keep generated files

       -r directory
              Used only in conjunction with the -wsdl option. Specify where to
              place generated resource files such as WSDLs.

       -s directory
              Specify where to place generated source files

       -verbose
              Output messages about what the compiler is doing

       -version
              Print version information.  Use of this option will  ONLY  print
              version information.  Normal processing will not occur.

       -wsdl[:protocol]
              By  default  wsgen  does  not generate a WSDL file. This flag is
              optional and will cause wsgen to generate a  WSDL  file  and  is
              usually  only  used  so  that the developer can look at the WSDL
              before the endpoint is deploy. The protocol is optional  and  is
              used  to  specify what protocol should be used in the wsdl:bind-
              ing. Valid protocols include: soap1.1 and Xsoap1.2. The  default
              is  soap1.1.   Xsoap1.2  is not standard and can only be used in
              conjunction with the -extension option.

       -servicename name
              Used only in conjunction with the -wsdl option. Used to  specify
              a  particular  wsdl:service  name  to  be generated in the WSDL.
              Example, -servicename "{http://mynamespace/}MyService"

       -portname name
              Used only in conjunction with the -wsdl option. Used to  specify
              a  particular wsdl:port name to be generated in the WSDL.  Exam-
              ple, -portname "{http://mynamespace/}MyPort"

Example
       wsgen -cp . -wsdl fromjava.server.AddNumbersImpl

       This generates the portable JAX-WS artifacts that are required for  Web
       Service  deployment.   It  also  generates the WSDL for the Web Service
       with the -wsdl option.



                                  07 Aug 2006                         wsgen(1)
