wsimport(1)                                                        wsimport(1)



NAME
       wsimport - JAX-WS 2.0


SYNOPSIS
       wsimport [options] wsdl

DESCRIPTION
       The wsimport tool generates  JAX-WS portable artifacts, such as:


          o  Service Endpoint Interface (SEI)

          o  Service

          o  Exception class mapped from wsdl:fault (if any)

          o  Async Reponse Bean derived from response wsdl:message (if any)

          o  JAXB  generated  value  types  (mapped  java  classes from schema
             types)

       These artifacts can be packaged in a WAR file with the WSDL and  schema
       documents  along  with the endpoint implementation to be deployed.  The
       generated Service class can be used to invoke the Web Service endpoint.

OPTIONS
       -d directory
              Specify where to place generated output files.

       -b path
              Specify  external  JAX-WS  or JAXB binding files (Each file must
              have its own -b).

       -catalog
              Specify catalog file to resolve external entity  references,  it
              supports  TR9401, XCatalog, and OASIS XML Catalog format. Please
              read the XML Entity and URI  Resolvers  document  or  see  wsim-
              port_catalog sample.

       -extension
              Allow  vendor  extensions  (functionality  not  specified by the
              specification). Use of extensions  may  result  in  applications
              that  are not portable or may not interoperate with other imple-
              mentations.

       -help  Display help.

       -httpproxy:host:port
              Specify an HTTP proxy server (port defaults to 8080).

       -keep  Keep generated files.

       -p     Specifying a target package via this command-line option,  over-
              rides any wsdl and schema binding customization for package name
              and the default package name algorithm defined in the specifica-
              tion.

       -s directory
              Specify where to place generated source files.

       -verbose
              Output messages about what the compiler is doing.

       -version
              Print version information.

       -wsdllocation location
              @WebService.wsdlLocation    and   @WebServiceClient.wsdlLocation
              value

       Multiple JAX-WS and JAXB binding files can be specified using -b option
       and  they  can  be used to customize various things like package names,
       bean names, etc. More information on JAX-WS and JAXB binding files  can
       be found in the customization documentation.

Examples
       wsimport -d generated http://example.org/stock?wsdl

       This  command  generates  JAX-WS  portable  artifacts  for http://exam-
       ple.org/stock?wsdl in to the generated directory.

       wsimport stock.wsdl -b stock.xml -b stock.xjb

       The above example generates JAX-WS artifacts for  stock.wsdl  and  uses
       the  customization  files  stock.xml  (jax-ws  customization  file) and
       stock.xjb (jaxb customization file) in the process.



                                  07 Aug 2006                      wsimport(1)
