XAR(1)                           User Commands                          XAR(1)



NAME
       xar - eXtensible ARchiver

SYNOPSIS
       xar -[ctx][v] ...

DESCRIPTION
       The  XAR  project  aims to provide an easily extensible archive format.
       Important design decisions include an easily extensible  XML  table  of
       contents  (TOC) for random access to archived files, storing the TOC at
       the beginning of  the  archive  to  allow  for  efficient  handling  of
       streamed  archives,  the  ability  to handle files of arbitrarily large
       sizes, the ability to choose independent encodings for individual files
       in  the archive, the ability to store checksums for individual files in
       both compressed and uncompressed form, and the ability to query the ta-
       ble of content's rich meta-data.

FUNCTIONS
       One of the following options must be used:

       -c     Creates an archive

       -t     Lists the contents of an archive

       -x     Extracts an archive

       NOTE:  all  of the above require the use of the -f option (filename) as
       this release of xar doesn't correctly handle pipes or sockets.

       -f     The  filename  to use for creation, listing or extraction.  With
              extraction, this can be a POSIX regular expression.

OPTIONS
       --compression
              Specifies the compression type  to  use.   Valid  values:  none,
              gzip, bzip2, lzma (on some systems).  Default value: gzip

       -C <path>
              On extract, xar will chdir to the specified path before extract-
              ing the archive.

       -a     Synonym for --compression=lzma

       -j     Synonym for --compression=bzip2

       -z     Synonym for --compression=gzip

       --compression-args=<arguments>
              Specifies arguments to the compression engine  selected.   gzip,
              bzip2, and lzma all take a single integer argument between 0 and
              9 specifying the compression level to use.

       --dump-toc=<filename>
              Has xar dump the xml header into the specified file.  "-" can be
              specified to mean stdout.

       --dump-header
              Has xar print out the xar binary header information to stdout.

       --extract-subdoc=<name>
              Extracts  the  specified  subdocument to a document in cwd named
              <name>.xml

       --list-subdocs
              List the subdocuments in the xml header

       --toc-cksum
              Specifies the hashing algorithm to use for xml header  verifica-
              tion.   Valid values: none, md5 (on some systems), sha1, sha256,
              and sha512.  Default value: sha1

       --file-cksum
              Specifies the hashing algorithm to use for file content  verifi-
              cation.   Valid  values:  none,  md5  (on  some  systems), sha1,
              sha256, and sha512.  Default value: sha1

       -l     On archival, stay on the local device.

       -P     On extract, set ownership based on uid/gid.  If the uid/gid  can
              be  set  on  the extracted file, setuid/setgid bits will also be
              preserved.

       -p     On extract, set ownership based on symbolic names, if  possible.
              If  the  uid/gid can be set on the extracted file, setuid/setgid
              bits will also be preserved.

       -s <filename>
              On extract, specifies the file to extract subdocuments  to.   On
              archival, specifies an xml file to add as a subdocument.

       -v     Verbose output

       --exclude
              Specifies  a  POSIX  regular expression of files to exclude from
              adding to the archive during creation or  from  being  extracted
              during extraction.  This option can be specified multiple times.

       --rsize
              Specifies a size (in bytes) for the internal libxar read  buffer
              while performing I/O.

       --coalesce-heap
              When multiple files in the archive are identical, only store one
              copy of the data in the heap.  This  creates  smaller  archives,
              but the archives created are not streamable.

       --link-same
              When  the data section of multiple files are identical, hardlink
              them within the archive.

       --no-compress
              Specifies a POSIX regular expression of files  to  archive,  but
              not  compress.   The  archived files will be copied raw into the
              archive.  This can be used to exclude already gzipped files from
              being gzipped during the archival process.

       --prop-include
              Specifies  a  file property to be included in the archive.  When
              this option is specified, only the  specified  options  will  be
              included.   Anything  not specifically included with this option
              will be omitted.  This option can be used multiple times.

       --prop-exclude
              Specifies a file property to be excluded from the archive.  When
              this  option  is specified, all file properties will be included
              except the specified properties.  This option can be used multi-
              ple times.

       --distribution
              Creates an archive to only contain file properties safe for file
              distribution.  Currently, only name, type, mode,  and  data  are
              preserved with this option.

       --keep-existing
              Does  not overwrite existing files during extraction.  Keeps any
              previously existing files while extracting.

       -k     Synonym for --keep-existing.

       --keep-setuid
              When extracting without -p or -P options, xar will extract files
              as  the  uid/gid  of the extracting process.  In this situation,
              xar will strip setuid/setgid bits from the extracted  files  for
              security reasons.  --keep-setuid will preserve the setuid/setgid
              bits even though the uid/gid of the extracted file  is  not  the
              same as the archived file.

EXAMPLES
       xar -cf sample.xar /home/uid
              Create a xar archive of all files in /home/uid

       xar -tf sample.xar
              List the contents of the xar archive sample.xar

       xar -xf sample.xar
              Extract the contents of sample.xar to the current working direc-
              tory

BUGS
       Doesn't currently work with pipes or streams.   Might  be  fixed  in  a
       future release.

       Probably one or two more somewhere in there. If  you  find  one  please
       report it to http://code.google.com/p/xar/

AUTHORS
       Rob Braun <bbraun AT synack DOT net>
       Landon Fuller <landonf AT bikemonkey DOT org>
       David Leimbach
       Kevin Van Vechten




version 1.8                      June 4, 2015                           XAR(1)
