xjc(1)                                                                  xjc(1)



NAME
       xjc - Java XML Binding Compiler

SYNOPSIS
       xjc [ -options ] <schema_file/URL/dir>... [ -b <bindinfo> ]...

PARAMETERS
       options        Command-line options.

       <schema_file/URL/dir>
                      Specify  one  or  more  schema  files to compile. If you
                      specify a directory, then  xjc  will  scan  it  for  all
                      schema files and compile them.

       <bindinfo>     External binding file to process.


OPTIONS
       -nv By  default, the XJC binding compiler performs strict validation of
           the source schema before processing it. Use this option to  disable
           strict  schema validation. This does not mean that the binding com-
           piler will not perform any validation, it simply means that it will
           perform less-strict validation.

       -extension
           By  default,  the  XJC binding compiler strictly enforces the rules
           outlined in the Compatibility chapter of  the  JAXB  Specification.
           Appendix  E.2 defines a set of W3C XML Schema features that are not
           completely supported by JAXB v1.0.   In  some  cases,  you  may  be
           allowed  to  use  them  in  the  "-extension"  mode enabled by this
           switch.  In the default (strict) mode,  you  are  also  limited  to
           using only the binding customizations defined in the specification.
           By using the "-extension" switch, you will be allowed  to  use  the
           JAXB Vendor Extensions

       -b <file>
           Specify  one or more external binding files to process. (Each bind-
           ing file must have its own "-b" switch.)  The syntax of the  exter-
           nal  binding  files  is  extremely  flexible. You may have a single
           binding file that contains customizations for multiple  schemas  or
           you can break the customizations into multiple bindings files:

           xjc schema1.xsd schema2.xsd schema3.xsd -b bindings123.xjb
           xjc  schema1.xsd  schema2.xsd schema3.xsd -b bindings1.xjb -b bind-
           ings2.xjb -b bindings3.xjb

           In addition, the ordering of the schema files and binding files  on
           the command line does not matter.

       -d <dir>
           By default, the XJC binding compiler will generate the Java content
           classes in the current directory. Use this  option  to  specify  an
           alternate  output  directory.  The  output  directory  must already
           exist, the XJC binding compiler will not create it for you.

       -p <pkg>
           Specifying a target package via this command-line option  overrides
           any  binding customization for package name and the default package
           name algorithm defined in the specification.

       -httpproxy <proxy>
           Specify the HTTP/HTTPS proxy. The format is [user[:password]@]prox-
           yHost[:proxyPort].   The old -host and -port are still supported by
           the RI for backwards compatibility, but they have been  deprecated.
           Note  that  the  password specified with this option is an argument
           that is visible to other users who use the top command,  for  exam-
           ple. For greater security, use -httpproxyfile, below.

       -httpproxyfile <file>
           Specify  the  HTTP/HTTPS  proxy using a file. Same format as above,
           but the password specified in the file  is  not  visible  to  other
           users.

       -classpath <arg>
           Specify  where  to  find client application class files used by the
           <jxb:javaType> and <xjc:superClass> customizations.

       -catalog <file>
           Specify catalog files to resolve external entity references.   Sup-
           ports  TR9401, XCatalog, and OASIS XML Catalog format.  Please read
           the XML Entity and URI Resolvers document or  the  catalog-resolver
           sample application.

       -readOnly
           By  default,  the  XJC  binding compiler does not write-protect the
           Java source files it generates. Use this option to  force  the  XJC
           binding compiler to mark the generated Java sources read-only.

       -npa
           Supress  the  generation of package level annotations into **/pack-
           age-info.java.  Using this switch  causes  the  generated  code  to
           internalize those annotations into the other generated classes.

       -xmlschema
           Treat  input  schemas  as  W3C  XML Schema (default). If you do not
           specify this switch, your input schemas will be treated as W3C  XML
           Schema.

       -relaxng
           Treat  input  schemas as RELAX NG (experimental, unsupported). Sup-
           port for RELAX NG schemas is provided as a JAXB Vendor Extension.

       -relaxng-compact
           Treat input schemas as RELAX NG compact syntax(experimental, unsup-
           ported).  Support for RELAX NG schemas is provided as a JAXB Vendor
           Extension.

       -dtd
           Treat input schemas as XML DTD (experimental, unsupported). Support
           for RELAX NG schemas is provided as a JAXB Vendor Extension.

       -wsdl
           Treat  input  as  WSDL  and  compile  schemas inside it (experimen-
           tal,unsupported).

       -quiet
           Suppress compiler output, such as progress  information  and  warn-
           ings.

       -verbose
           Be  extra  verbose, such as printing informational messages or dis-
           playing stack traces upon some errors.

       -help
           Display a brief summary of the compiler switches.

       -version
           Display the compiler version information.


   Summary of Deprecated and Removed Command Line Options
       -host & -port
           These options have been deprecated and replaced with the -httpproxy
           option.  For  backwards  compatibility, we will continue to support
           these options, but they will no longer be  documented  and  may  be
           removed from future releases.

       -use-runtime
           Since the JAXB 2.0 specification has defined a portable runtime, it
           is no longer necessary for the JAXB RI to generate  **/impl/runtime
           packages.  Therefore, this switch is obsolete and has been removed.

       -source
           The -source compatibility switch was introduced in the  first  JAXB
           2.0  Early  Access  release.  We have decided to remove this switch
           from future releases of JAXB 2.0. If you  need  to  generate  1.0.x
           code, please use an installation of the 1.0.x codebase.

       -Xlocator & -Xsync-methods
           These  switches  have  been  disabled for now. We plan on releasing
           this functionality as a separate download in the future.


   Compiler Restrictions
       In general, it is safest to compile all related  schemas  as  a  single
       unit with the same binding compiler switches.

       Please  keep  the  following  list of restrictions in mind when running
       xjc. Most of these issues only apply when  compiling  multiple  schemas
       with multiple invocations of xjc.

          o To  compile  multiple schemas at the same time, keep the following
            precedence rules for the target Java package name in mind:

             1. The "-p" command line option takes the highest precedence.

             2. <jaxb:package> customization

             3. If targetNamespace is declared, apply targetNamespace ->  Java
                package name algorithm defined in the specification.

             4. If  no  targetNamespace  is  declared, use a hardcoded package
                named "generated".


          o It is not legal to have more  than  one  jaxb:schemaBindings>  per
            namespace,  so  it  is  impossible to have two schemas in the same
            target namespace compiled into different Java packages.

          o All schemas being compiled into the same Java package must be sub-
            mitted  to the XJC binding compiler at the same time - they cannot
            be compiled independently and work as expected.

          o Element substitution groups spread across  multiple  schema  files
            must be compiled at the same time.



                                  07 Aug 2006                           xjc(1)
