escaping tool for sed
asynchronous shell exec in php
asynchronous shell exec in php
test two variables in the same script
test two variables in the same script
test two variables in the same script
test two variables in the same script
awk syntax and string error
bash-- rightanglebrc batch + colon and back/forward-slash use
get the size and other info with the "du" command
bash-- rightanglebrc batch + colon and back/forward-slash use
applescript + shell script problem
get the size and other info with the "du" command
combine two lists with a join on a column
vim: execute shell command without filtering
grep and sed regular expressions meaning - extracting urls from a web page
inserting shell script variable into xml
why does bash printf %q produces different kinds of output?
if first space is 2 space, make it 1 in a file
how do i get the .profile file to work on solaris machine?
check if a directory exists recursively reversing the path
make fails checking if directory exists
bash command aliasing for sshfs
create dirs with capistrano after deploy
create dirs with capistrano after deploy
another unusual java classnotfound
bash script doesn't wait until commands have been properly executed
assign file names to a variable 
how do i monitor folder and move the file out of it?
simple shell if condition not working
cronjob with email not working
bash script - check if a file contains a specific line
trouble setting variable in a bash script
trouble setting variable in a bash script
how can i make vim open files in `--remote-silent` without getting an error when running just `vim`?
square bracket ( test condition ) stuff  and advance case statement
bash - troubling result with if  leftsquarebrc .. rightsquarebrc  ||  leftsquarebrc .. rightsquarebrc 
bash - troubling result with if  leftsquarebrc .. rightsquarebrc  ||  leftsquarebrc .. rightsquarebrc 
trying to check if information written in a text file is equal to a variable with
trying to check if information written in a text file is equal to a variable with
execute command in script based on year
nested loop with two arrays
check if string match a regex  script
comparison  with division always giving false
creating an installation bash script with the python csv module
inline if shell script
bash -gt command with pgrep & wc
inline if shell script
how to check if a symlink target matches a specific path?
bash if not match then execute command
how can i tell what my shell is running my init file?
shellscript backslashed and spaced parameter
explanation of convertor of cidr to netmask  netmask2cdir and cdir2netmask
why am i getting "non -option argv element: xxxx" ?
how to exit from a method 
bash - troubling result with if  leftsquarebrc .. rightsquarebrc  ||  leftsquarebrc .. rightsquarebrc 
bash - troubling result with if  leftsquarebrc .. rightsquarebrc  ||  leftsquarebrc .. rightsquarebrc 
simple shell if condition not working
syntax error: unexpected end of file
two styles of check return value in ksh
problem with bash code
string comparison  with an or condition
bash boolean expression and its value assignement
bash - when using double square brackets and when single square brackets
store bash string comparison in variable
store bash string comparison in variable
compare hex numbers 
compare hex numbers 
using if elif fi s
read a file by bytes 
read a file by bytes 
why is this bash while loop infinite?
error when running a script (with a while loop) in a script created background process
cp exits with a 64 error status
script throwing unexpected operator when using mysqldump
script throwing unexpected operator when using mysqldump
nested for loop comparing files
bash command - using for i in `ls` with an if statement
string comparision not working 
string comparision not working 
bash - multiple conditions in a for loop
find maximum positive integer value in bourne shell
one line if/else condition  scripting
check if git has changes programmatically
check if git has changes programmatically
incorrect result of bash shell script
bourne shell for i in (seq)
perform comparison inside backticks
equivalent of "(cond)? val_true : val_false"  bash
how to show "or" relationships  when writing a test statement?
bash if with or and negation
why test for equality in sh scripts in an indirect way?
why test for equality in sh scripts in an indirect way?
why test for equality in sh scripts in an indirect way?
why test for equality in sh scripts in an indirect way?
what are the ways to do numeric testing ?
what does the if  leftsquarebrc  "${-#*i}" != "$-"  rightsquarebrc  mean?
bash - possible to 'override' the test ( leftsquarebrc  leftsquarebrc )-builtin?
understanding script to check if file exists or not
understanding script to check if file exists or not
understanding script to check if file exists or not
syntax error near unexpected token - bash
syntax error near unexpected token - bash
how to properly make path handling robust in a bash program?
how to properly make path handling robust in a bash program?
easiest way to check for an index or a key in an array?
bash: how to check if the last string character equals '*'
bash: how to check if the last string character equals '*'
first character of string  not working
first character of string  not working
bash complete from two sources, folders and keys from array
is there no unless ?
how can i make a bash script to tell if files in a give folder are symlinks or a normal files?
string check  with -z and -n
string check  with -z and -n
check if serial device is working, reboot otherwise
 leftsquarebrc -d: command not found
why does this shell script not work?
what ~ is parsed to?
why is part of my one liner not being executed
how to use rm to recursively remove all dirs starting with a prefix
fastest/one-liner way to conditionally remove multiple directories on unix
how do i make a symlink to every directory in the current directory that has the same name but has underscores replaced by dashes?
check if current directory is a git repository
how to tell if you're in a git-svn repo ?
meaning of scen$i 
bash command aliasing for sshfs
why does "su - -c" make this fail?
how to mkdir only if a dir does not already exist?
explain this bash script
linux replace sleep calls with process status check
how to create and access a shell config file from a shell script?
exit command doesn't work 
bash: how do i check if certain files exist?
shell script: how to read a text file that does not end with a newline on windows
install zsh without root access?
how to check if a specific kind of file exists in folder with shell?
pitfalls in renaming files 
bash | adding elements in all files of a specific directory bash
globbing for only files 
how can i check a file exists and execute a command if not?
unix test for existence or file
why test for equality in sh scripts in an indirect way?
how to shorten this?: read first|| exit 1; (echo "$first"; cat) | $foo
why test for equality in sh scripts in an indirect way?
why test for equality in sh scripts in an indirect way?
how to load ~/.bash_profile when entering bash from within zsh?
why are the bash -n and -z test operators not inverses for $@
why var="";  leftsquarebrc  -n $var  rightsquarebrc  && echo t || echo f returns f?
why are the bash -n and -z test operators not inverses for $@
why var="";  leftsquarebrc  -n $var  rightsquarebrc  && echo t || echo f returns f?
escaping strings 
add missing newlines in multiple files
how to setup a "module" command  to add software package to $path?
how to make check on args  and execute some command if a sertain argument was not set?
why var="";  leftsquarebrc  -n $var  rightsquarebrc  && echo t || echo f returns f?
why var="";  leftsquarebrc  -n $var  rightsquarebrc  && echo t || echo f returns f?
bash one-line conditional fails when using set -e
how to understand the following shell script?
testing for gui in .bashrc
bash script with background process
how do i check what files i have permission to read in a directory?
how can i write a shell-script that will email me a file if the file is not empty?
what is the equivalent to xargs -r under osx
save last working directory on bash logout
how do i know if a bash script is running with nohup
how to detect if my shell script is running through a pipe?
how to detect if my shell script is running through a pipe?
urxvt as a shell-to-run-things or how to exit bash by  leftanglebrc enter rightanglebrc , but execute string entered so far?
how to get a list of folders that i can remove?
how to check for path expansion for executables
network script doesn't work. centos 2.6
check if gpg-agent is installed from bash
why test for equality in sh scripts in an indirect way?
how to execute a command with $variable that contains spaces?
variables is mistake taken for a command
${2:-$2} what does this piece of code do
bash environment variables and finding installation directories
how can you use the unix kill command silently in a bash script?
how to make functions visible to bash scripts?
how to make gnu screen auto start when login?
how to tell if a string is not defined in a bash shell script?
unset variable check 
why does not bash short-circuit work in this case?
bash script multi conditional fails
how to check if a line from a file is empty with bash
how can i test if line is empty ?
cronjob with email not working
bash parameter expansion
how to tell if a string is not defined in a bash shell script?
how to tell if a string is not defined in a bash shell script?
differentiate between 2 and 02  script
escaping variable in grep statement in conditional statement
how to autostart jobs when using zsh
check whether certificate alias is already present
bash can not get if to work like i want to
linux script: if  leftsquarebrc  "$hostname" != "(none)"  rightsquarebrc  comparison doesn't work
root can use git, but any other account: -bash: git: command not found
bash-program "watch" and ansi escape sequences in the output
unix bash if else statement not working
why 'x' used in  leftsquarebrc  x"$var" = x"value"  rightsquarebrc ?
understanding script to check if file exists or not
why my shell does work well with -a in if condition?
why my shell does work well with -a in if condition?
return value from shell script without using echo
, it is okay for a variable and a function to have the same name?
sh scripting:  leftsquarebrc  program  rightsquarebrc  &&  leftsquarebrc  program  rightsquarebrc  vs. if  leftsquarebrc  program  rightsquarebrc  then  leftsquarebrc  program  rightsquarebrc 
bash: multiple expression if statement
bash: multiple expression if statement
check what device are you running and execute action
git edit authors name in commit range, script
bash: compound grep in
find and delete files with non-ascii names
in sed, how to represent "alphanumeric or _ or -"
awk using space in character class
is there an equivalent of mac os x "open" command that can be called from c++/objective-c code?
line  leftsquarebrc : missing ` rightsquarebrc ' debugging help please
possible for git to commit automatically when file changes?
understanding script to check if file exists or not
how to tell if you're in a git-svn repo ?
regarding usage of hostname in rabbitmq's bash script
regarding usage of hostname in rabbitmq's bash script
regarding usage of hostname in rabbitmq's bash script
why 'x' used in  leftsquarebrc  x"$var" = x"value"  rightsquarebrc ?
string comparison  with an or condition
why test for equality in sh scripts in an indirect way?
why test for equality in sh scripts in an indirect way?
why test for equality in sh scripts in an indirect way?
why test for equality in sh scripts in an indirect way?
why test for equality in sh scripts in an indirect way?
why test for equality in sh scripts in an indirect way?
why test for equality in sh scripts in an indirect way?
passing multple files with asterisk to python shell in windows
error accessing mercurial with non-root user
using negative numbers with sed
using find in a directory in node.js
 leftsquarebrc -d: command not found
, how to strip out all numbers in the file names in a directory while leaving the file extension intact
 arguments  to rscript
what does & do at the end of a wc command?
bash: set a process to die in start parameters with sighup
how to show a tmux environment variable in the status bar (as window format)
extract a numeric substring and another line as variables from multi-line text file
how can i count access to a file from apache access logs using bash
replace substring in lines using sed or grep
how to replace all the blanks within square brackets with an underscore using sed?
copy files to my usb only 
replacing the `'` char using awk
using regex in if-else
wowwee mip command over bluetooth  with gatttool
specifying range in regular expressions
how to return array with xpath?
how to run the "purge" command through nstask?
regex issues matching html tag
read variable matched by a .* operation
awk fpat variable: working
, how to strip out all numbers in the file names in a directory while leaving the file extension intact
using bash grep -po regex fails if string has an underscore
flex regular expression to identify awk regular expression
sed: can my pattern contain an "is not" character? how do i say "is not x"?
using sed to get all characters between opening and closing characters
how can i replace the existing mac add with a new mac address using sed
how can i replace the existing mac add with a new mac address using sed
flex for generating awk scanner - identify variables
on the lack of "int main(int argc, char* argv leftsquarebrc  rightsquarebrc )" knowledge
on the lack of "int main(int argc, char* argv leftsquarebrc  rightsquarebrc )" knowledge
running a script in the background with php
characters in ps1 variable
how to pass parameters for a ant script , which is invoked via shell script?
pass "git describe" output to java code
awk opposite of split
class constructor objects don't display correctly
different results achieved using python's os.walk function and ls command
installing maven 3.0.5 in redhat linux
a better way to do batch inserts with core data?
bash or php cron script to clear out email
ffmpeg works out mp3 duration with file input, but fails with pipe?
why does this python script not work?
how can i give parameters to a function of a python script through the command-line?
weird bash i/o redirect behavior
replacing text using sed
blank space in directory name causing error
can xargs separate parameters?
is #!/usr/bin/env required to run php from ?
awk loop | multiple lines
phpinfo is reporting incorrect pcre version
ruby through rvm fails
how to add  leftsquarebrc   rightsquarebrc  brackets around first character of a word using bash
how to use sed to convert text file to csv file using python
why does the below code stop with exit 1?
running shell script with nstask causes posix_spawn error
how to execute shell-command "ping" and get result into string in objective-c/cocoa?
how to execute shell-command "ping" and get result into string in objective-c/cocoa?
running shell script with nstask causes posix_spawn error
nstask sending an argument through /bin/sh or /bin/bash problem cocoa objective-c
execute shell script from cocoa (obj.c) with response
python regex equivalent of bash's {1..4}
abstracting the conversion between id3 tags, m4a tags, flac tags
how to generate database diagrams from the  in fedora 19?
parsing json file using sed or perl
how can i run a program in the background (non blocking) with php?
why do i have to eval to  rightanglebrc  ?
bash: more than one  substitution
changing the previous command 
how do i reuse a command  with different parameters?
caret search and replace 
—replace string from previous command and execute
—replace string from previous command and execute
how to execute command inside vim?
second previous command execution
is there a way to allow spaces  bang pattern (repeating last command)
how do i use bash to selectively remove newlines?
awk script not behaving correctly when run over ssh
awk script not behaving correctly when run over ssh
find two matches with exactly `n` lines in between
awk: "default" action if no pattern was matched?
get a particular line from history, bash
is it possible to replace previous command by '^' multiple times?
is there a way to allow spaces  bang pattern (repeating last command)
exclamation mark inside quotes results in a strange parse error
second previous command execution
setting ubuntu system variable when value starts with?
mixing python and bash in ipython
display date in winscp
git alias with shell variable expansions
git alias with shell variable expansions
ipython shell awk : escaping "$" sign
exclamation mark inside quotes results in a strange parse error
bash nth command substitution?
git alias not working properly
git alias not working properly
can i match a multiline pattern with sed
how can i pass command-line arguments containing special characters to a process launched via perl or bash?
how to store bash shell script in the json document effectively for python script
android adb linux problem
android adb linux problem
trouble setting variable in a bash script
1394661620440271000/1000000: no such file or directory
if else in xargs
how to get the length of a variable ?
is my syntax off or am i just doing this entirely wrong?
line count from grep into count range variable bash openwrt
writing bash code for performance standards
get the process name from remote machine
counting the number of characters in a file using bash and assigning to variable
why function ls { ls; } hangs in there?
bash script unexpected end of file
pass commands with spaces as function arguments
two styles of check return value in ksh
two styles of check return value in ksh
zsh '& rightanglebrc  /dev/null &' alias?
equivalent bash statment without closing parenthesis
problem with bash code
shell scripting quotation
compared two parameters using " leftanglebrc " 
reading a variable that is a command in the terminal
comparison  with division always giving false
how to execute sh for all the files in current directory
how to evaluate a boolean variable in an if block ?
bash batch file rename
bash script to find and execute more complex command
syntax error integer expresion expected
bmi calculator 
shell program - determine average word length in a file
use bash count every word's occurrence in a file
var+= adds string instead of sum
bash script, illegal number: 08
"condition expected:  leftanglebrc " on zsh x(ml)
zsh auto_vim (like auto_cd)
zsh auto_vim (like auto_cd)
simple queue for youtube-dl in the linux shell
alias in cshell with grave accents, apostrophes and more
bash: using cut on space delimited file: treating two spaces as one
run a shell script periodically on mac os x without root permission
dump a mysql database to a plaintext (csv) backup from the 
simple queue for youtube-dl in the linux shell
how do i write a program to produce properly quoted  arguments for another program?
batch rename in hadoop
how to find all files which are basically soft or hard links of other directories or files on linux?
how to find all files which are basically soft or hard links of other directories or files on linux?
how to find all files which are basically soft or hard links of other directories or files on linux?
filter out find results where i may not read file / see directory contents
help using xargs to pass mulitiple filenames to shell script
how do i find information on bash special parameters ($* $@ $# $? $- $$ $! $0 $_)?
how to silently install dmg file  x system (using shell script)?
setting path to run files in 'lua for windows'
suppress start message of matlab
commandline find, sed, exec
sed one-liner to remove all single newlines?
sed one-liner to remove all single newlines?
how can i quickly sum all numbers in a file?
what is the point of the "perl" command?
sed one-liner to remove all single newlines?
sed one-liner to remove all single newlines?
sed one-liner to remove all single newlines?
how can i quickly sum all numbers in a file?
zsh auto_vim (like auto_cd)
how to insert the text at the begin of each line only if the given pattern matches in that line
unix - parse html file and get all his resources list
repeatedly using one subprocess.popen instance in python
what's the opposite of od(1)?
why can't match the content between # and end of line in sed?
windows : non evaluation of environment variable
awk width of the columns
what does %0|%0 do?
cordova - add android platform issue
cordova - add android platform issue
how to remove quote from forfiles variables
ansi escape codes for coloring inside bash printf
open file by name only, no extension
error while installing rpm -%post script of spec-failed dependencies /bin/sh
leave variables in memory after execution
extracting last column using vi
substitute backslash plus pipe in vi/linus
external gnu binutils "sort" by column won't work in vim
ruby: execute shell command 'echo' with '-n' option
create zip files in ruby by running unix commands, no gems please
cygwin terminal and zsh strange characters used in username
how to execute a windows batch command recursively?
how to get full path of a given path
why does this snippet work?
if first space is 2 space, make it 1 in a file
sed - how to do regex groups using sed
using find in a directory in node.js
zsh completion according to a parameter
regex that matches contents of () with nested () in it
regular expression, sed, path extraction
one more greedy sed question
what does this regex mean and why
regular expression unix shell script
using sed to extract an email address
shell and text manipulation: marking the ends of sentences and controlling space between paragraphs
conditionally remove portion of a line in delimited file
bash: how to do a variable expansion within an arithmetic expression?
how do i find information on bash special parameters ($* $@ $# $? $- $$ $! $0 $_)?
variables multiplication
curl: downloading from dynamic url
shell script and cron problems
start named via cron?
how to store the temperature and corresponding time to a file through shell?
script working manually but not via crontab?
running the program after it terminates using cron
how do you call shell scripts from an arbitrary directory?
how can i schedule a script to copy a file from a remote server to my local machine every hour with a time stamp using cron & scp?
unix cron job to send php mail every minute
cron job does not run
debugging my cron application
#!/usr/bin/env ruby is not found in cron
issues with mysql restart on running through a crontab scheduler
/bin/sh: syntax error: unterminated quoted string
#!/usr/bin/env ruby is not found in cron
cron doesn't run bash script
cron doesn't run bash script
how to schedule a task on linux server machine while php interpretator is accessible?
run constant number of php scripts on server
how to determine if a php file is loaded via cron/
crontab doesnt work 
my very basic command is failing on cron but runs fine otherwise, 
shell script runs from cli but not from crontab
copy a file every 60 seconds bash
a $( ) in crontab
a $( ) in crontab
writing a shell script to install cron job
wmctrl not working in crontab
cron alarm clock linux mint stops suddenly  leftsquarebrc solved rightsquarebrc 
sudo password automation is not working as expected when executing from crontab?
cannot run shell_exec in cron'd php, $path is not visible as well
cron job calling bash scrip and python scripts
unix cron job to send php mail every minute
how can i space crons in 100 minute cycles?
using qsub within crontab?
cannot get a cron event to fire on my linux server
debian bash script works fine from ; fails in crontab
python script not running in crontab calling pysaunter
how can i run same command in a shell every 3h
cron error with using backquotes
ftp shell script not working with cronjob
problems with shell script for no reason
shell metacharacters - a shorter way to match these types of filenames?
shell metacharacters - a shorter way to match these types of filenames?
how can i maintain my last command’s exit-status while resetting my prompt in zsh?
bash: storing a pattern in a variable without the pattern being evaluted
server printing message to all users console
server printing message to all users console
bash variable substitution within command substitution
how to transfer files of different extensions from one server to another on linux?
append a text to the end of multiple files 
shell script changing desktop wallpaper
trouble automating linux (specifically raspian) scripts
cron job and bash script to check battery state and beep
use awk and sed to read a sensor, and output value to html file
use awk and sed to read a sensor, and output value to html file
use awk and sed to read a sensor, and output value to html file
changing cronjob path
cron job doesn't run
delete empty file in tmp directory with file mask
php cron job not executing
shell script to email cpu utilization by email
glassfish dies and does not start again
how to write bash script that autoruns every 10 min?
cron job not running bash script
how do i setup an rsync cron job to synchronize maildir?
script executes successfully  but not as a cronjob
cron tar with file filtering
how to run python file in cron job
how to run python file in cron job
how do i setup an rsync cron job to synchronize maildir?
bash script for running two commands at specific intervals
start file php from shell
crontab scheduling confusion
cronjob to run every 30 minutes
shell crontab not working
how to update code using svn with crontab?
send alert email if cpu usage is continuously higher than a certain amount
crontab job to run a bash alias every 5 minutes
how to create a bash script that every 5 minutes insert a record in a log file?
shell script random cron job
using asterisk to click2dial via 
how to use regex to match asterisk in awk
passing a pointer variable to store an array of strings ( arguments)
passing a pointer variable to store an array of strings ( arguments)
i need to match or replace an asterisk * in a batch environmental variable using only native windows commands. is this possible?
bash script -e not detecting filename in a variable
bash script -e not detecting filename in a variable
bash script -e not detecting filename in a variable
perl backticks when using pipes
echo to standard input or stdin
bash initialize sparse array
bash: incrementing a variable using "let"
how to count number of forked (sub-?)processes
bash- syntax error: operand expected
find difference between two dates 
how to list content of field 
obfuscating stored passwords 
remove dollar signs and commas from a string using sed
awk-how to improve this regular expression?
how to `ls` only one level deep?
executing generated commands 
not able to export variable using system in awk
vim run commands from bash script and exit without leaving shell in a bad state
command substitution breaks command substitution
not performed .bashrc
how to pass all bash env variables to cron
understanding a shell script code using expand function
how to execute a script in zsh and then become interactive?
source bashrc from script failing
difference in invoking shell script from within another shell script
bash non blocking source (background???)
git bash - how to default to other directory instead of home directory
how to modify an exported variable from child
set environment variables from file
export /etc/environment variables to current environment; from a shell script?
what happens if i locally redefined a previously exported variable?
not able to source a property file 
how to intialize a variable from another script ?
can't change dyld_library_path inside sh script
exporting a variable to another bash script
how can i automatically set environmental variables when files from a particular directory are executed?
server.sh: 2: .: properties.conf: not found
setting variable in a file does not work
bash unix shell script to accept input and set system variables
incorrect exit on bash script
linux environment variables setting disappear
how to run sql scripts serially  script?
exporting variables between shell script
syntax error near unexpected token `do'
source files in a bash script.
dot space (  leftsquarebrc dot rightsquarebrc  leftsquarebrc space rightsquarebrc  leftsquarebrc filename rightsquarebrc  )
about shell variables and environment variables
using return 
bash: read variables from text-file var=value format
server.sh: 2: .: properties.conf: not found
linux wrong path exported. how to recover ~./bashrc file
how to use environment variable declared in /etc/profie into script running through monit?
how can i set environment variables in my linux service for asterisk even though it doesn't have a real user?
using strace to debug db2 cli executing a query
writing a cron job that can access user data
shared environment file
shell command ". .profile" can not work in perl
bash: limit the number of concurrent jobs?
saving data ?
bash built in function bash source code
how to write commands into shell script?
extraordinarily simple shell scripting question: making sticky changes?
run a bash script automatically upon login
use variables set in a script file inside another script file
how to bundle bash completion with a program and have it work in the current shell?
cron unable to read property file
read and execute lines with spaces from file 
unable to run application with twitter4j from 
unable to run application with twitter4j from 
how to include file in a bash shell script
bash error running groovy-compiled class with java "no such file or directory"
changing bash parent shell
what is the difference between "./" and ". " to run script ?
parsing cookies  cgi scripts
mongodb with bash: creating replica sets gets 'error : unknown option fork use --help for help'
why are bash script variables not saving?
bash script: paste and execute an external bash script
reading variables from input file bash
modify bash variables with sed
declare variables from a shell script in the shell
unix script - setting dynamic variables (indirect variable reference)
match values according to index 
why is this script not changing directory
how to run 'cd'  and stay there after script finishes?
global environment variables in a shell script
set java_home from bash script
setting enviroment variables dynamically on linux
c program calling shell script
how to parse variables from a parameter file in a k shell script
bash can't cd into a directory through another script
how to make subprocess called with call/popen inherit environment variables
bash script exiting prematurely when calling another script inside it
 do all commands that work in a shell script also work at the command prompt?
how to change directory through a script file
bash script tail and export misbehaving
programmatically start a series of processes w\ job control
run shell using one shell
bash terminal closes after running a script
bash - export doesn't work
$0 in sourced bash script not returning script name
replacement for source in sh
shellscript reading variables from a file
bash forgets export variable
prevent a command in a shellscript from being executed inside another shellscript
how to include a file containing variables in a shell script
activating a virtualenv using a shell script doesn't seem to work
file containing env vars not loading
adding git alias to .bash_profile not working
error when cassandra-cli command executed in ssh
raspberrypi shutdown script
share settings between multiple machines by source control system
why does my command-line not run from cron?
how to make emacs 's shell mode source my profile file?
bash interactive and non-interactive shell behaviour
reload the .profile file
terminal command to open new safari window
why does my command-line not run from cron?
can i create my own bashrc file, something like ".xyzrc" and then import it from .bashrc?
pushd/popd on ksh?
explain this command: . ~/nvm/nvm.sh
making the output file from db2 displays the process of table creations from shell scipt?
bash "diff" utility showing files as different when using a regex ignore
grep with upper bound for middle of search pattern
using sed to get all characters between opening and closing characters
how do i write stderr to a file while using "tee" with a pipe?
storing process output in files based on the output (bash)
buffer records in gnu awk
buffer records in gnu awk
git post-receive hook not working
error while trying to pass awk result to variable
why can i not save the output of this awk statement to a variable
why can i not save the output of this awk statement to a variable
failing bash if statement
ftp shell script not working with cronjob
what does `echo prefix = ~/.node  rightanglebrc  rightanglebrc  ~/.npmrc` mean?
awk change once per file
awk change once per file
awk change once per file
awk change once per file
makefile odd behaviour
can variable in while loop be gloablly reachable? ()
bash: nested interactive read within a loop that's also using read
how to use tar for directory range?
reading/capturing dos input for use in msbuild
git commit user is different than git push user
find strings with spaces in command prompt
doesn't work on tcsh: set kk=`cd $the_path; pwd`
how to find and execute a file  script?
extract digits with regular expression 
find foldername of highest version
given a xml file, i am writing bash to parse it, but need to create a header and break up a date string?
shell script - list files, read files and write data to new file
bash scripting, how to parse string separated with :
set shell variable in awk and reuse
set shell variable in awk and reuse
find duplicates of a file by name in a directory recursively - linux
find duplicates of a file by name in a directory recursively - linux
find duplicates of a file by name in a directory recursively - linux
find duplicates of a file by name in a directory recursively - linux
how to print values on single line
terminal command to find unique pairs where order does not matter
creating an sql query using awk, bash, grep
filter ps output by cpu time
filter ps output by cpu time
how to get array of services 
append xargs argument number as prefix
print record number with a prefix
awk to output table-like or excel-like columns  terminal?
new to awk and sed, how could i improve this? multiple sed and awk commands
realtime removal of carriage return 
merging two files with columns 
shell cut command to remove characters
realtime removal of carriage return 
extracting text+variable from file not workng
list all users and last time they read mail, pipeing to multiple output
bash: wget stdout to grep "word" if not exist grep "word2" print word|word2
get string between strings 
converting bash output to json / dictionary
bash - find specific folder with find and filter with regex
grep for value of keyvaue pair and format
bash scripting, how to parse string separated with :
send an email to a email group using shell script
cygwin awk print adds strange character to filename
cygwin awk print adds strange character to filename
pass variable to nawk ?
need comma seperated output for n number of values 
need comma seperated output for n number of values 
how to add timestamp to pipe output?
parse a file under linux
function to process input from pipe
realtime removal of carriage return 
bash: nested interactive read within a loop that's also using read
unix `find` on win msys, no such file or directory
complex changes to a url with sed
expanding date in a bash script set up with configuration file
python - how to fix this line typeerror: not enough arguments for format string
python - how to fix this line typeerror: not enough arguments for format string
removing text 
removing text 
function to process input from pipe
search for string and echo only that line only?
get string between strings 
add '\n' after a specific number of delimiters
remove set of characters surrounding value
sed, replace backslash in #include
bash/ take substring from a string
complex changes to a url with sed
syntax error in awk while sorting the fields
syntax error in awk while sorting the fields
identifying top recurring words from a list of e-mails based on a dictionary of interesting words
identifying top recurring words from a list of e-mails based on a dictionary of interesting words
sort lots of large compressed files
list filenames up to a limit per each text file 
what is the general syntax of a unix shell command?
generating tdb dataset from archive containing n-triples files
trouble with "if eq" statement 
how do i create a stopwatch bash script to constantly display elapsed time?
format all xml files in a directory and save them in a subdirectory
test xargs before operating on it
rename directories from abc.folder.xyz to folder.xyz
linux awk sort descending order not working
find: cannot chdir to directory error message after deleting directories
grep output with multiple colors?
bash scripting, how to parse string separated with :
how to output the shell find result and the match number?
extract digits with regular expression 
is there any way of discarding output until a pattern is matched?
processing a pcap/dmp file for time-to-live, user-agent, and os
feed line number to sed
awk linux shell seems error
how to remove escape char from string  using sed?
how to remove escape char from string  using sed?
processing a pcap/dmp file for time-to-live, user-agent, and os
how to compile with all .jars in .m2?
bash piping pv - move file and (un)tar
rename multiple files from 
bach linux file rename - how to rename multiple files  console
using awk to fill in sql dates
bash can not get if to work like i want to
cakephp shell :shell class helloshell could not be found
cakephp shell :shell class helloshell could not be found
log rotating with a bash script
running .sh files with java's exec in a different directory?
cakephp 2.4 "error: shell class helloshell could not be found." paths mess?
unix  current directory
how to pass shell variable as a  arguments in c program
ubuntu cronjob with rsync
batch file replace extracted file
running files using the * command 
launch an executable and send signal to it whilst running
scheduling jobs one after other 
how to communicate between a shell and its subshell process? (call by execution not sourcing)
redirecting input separated with spaces
strange behavior of -exec in find command
incrementing an environmental variable
using parameters in a shell script
how to call a cocoa app from command-line outside?
how to call a cocoa app from command-line outside?
how do i append onto pipes?
how do i append onto pipes?
redirect standard output/error to log file
redirect standard output/error to log file
creating a java executable
how to pass a parameter containing & to a bat file from cygw
how to pass a parameter containing & to a bat file from cygw
print  output into a text file  (ubuntu)
returning values from a c++ program into a bash script
returning values from a c++ program into a bash script
redirection of ./a.out is not capturing segmentation fault
$ followed by a char  argument in c
weird behavior when passing * as a  parameter on linux
how to use output of program a as input for b ?
how to pass "*"  arguments.?
redirecting c++ generated cerr and cout to the same file in ubuntu
redirecting c++ generated cerr and cout to the same file in ubuntu
is there a way to redirect output  to different places with different filters?
is there a way to redirect output  to different places with different filters?
how do i get both stdout and stderr to go to the terminal and a log file?
how do i get both stdout and stderr to go to the terminal and a log file?
how do i pass '  leftsquarebrc single quote character rightsquarebrc  as argument   leftsquarebrc bash shell rightsquarebrc ?
how do i pass '  leftsquarebrc single quote character rightsquarebrc  as argument   leftsquarebrc bash shell rightsquarebrc ?
run a shell script in new terminal from current terminal
run a shell script in new terminal from current terminal
install android sdk using  linux
how to pass and get array as an argument to shell script
how to run a c program  script and give it 2 arguments?
using commander.js in node for  apps?
aws  interface "as cmd not found"
inserting variables into urls with bash scripting
can i use shell or python realize calling a c programe and give all the parameter it requires?
revising bash script to work on whatever file i tell it to
prevent parameter propagation
playing around with bash, getting syntax errors
removing duplicate entries from files on the basis of substring postfixes
bash: delete chars in a file, only on the first line
ant build script for behat error
shell script running infinitely
shell script to copy a file to a location displayed on the terminal after the build
shell script to copy a file to a location displayed on the terminal after the build
bake cakephp configure console profile
capturing verbatim  (including quotes!) to call inside script
capturing verbatim  (including quotes!) to call inside script
passing a shells output to a perl script log
asking my bash to skip ssl checking
unix shell, redirect output but keep on stdin
cannot execute bash script in redhat linux
what is the difference between "./" and ". " to run script ?
perl command not found
why gradle's wrapper  has to be started in this way?
use result of pipeline as argument for another command
xargs i already have full command set
skip the first 32k of stdin with dd?
mysqlworkbench without root access
why is cuda flummoxed by variable declaration rc?
cannot configure quilt on mac for csipsimple
building from the  to produce a binary  10.5 (and 10.6)
passing parameters into ./configure
test apache configure
test apache configure
capture compile error and terminate bash script
comparing many files 
how can i redirect to a file a system error from running an executable without a needed library?
segmentation fault when looping through directories with bash script
why am i getting "non -option argv element: xxxx" ?
counting the occurrence of a sub-graph in a graph
how to generate a sequence of dates given starting and ending dates using awk of bash scripts?
passing string into bash script
terminal - delete all folders not conatining .mp3 files
how to print proper error message
bash programming - variable only to be returned when script called from another script
write stdout & stderr to a logfile, also write stderr to screen
use curl with a file of commands
optimizing rails loading for maintenance scripts
how do i provide input to a c program from bash?
how do i provide input to a c program from bash?
c - program compiling, but unable to provide arguments
execute perl  without specifying perl 
how to change example.bat to example.pl?
command not found -3.2$
executing 2 (similar) commands using sudo giving same exact output
use expect 
bash shell variable substitution issue
find and copy a string within html code
unable to make a factorial function in awk
bad substitution  script
export /etc/environment variables to current environment; from a shell script?
run text files in terminal
how can i print second and last three lines from multiple text files?
find: paths must precede expression
how to know all pids of forks in forks?
how to run python script without typing 'python ...'
shell script argument parsing
bash: why `printf` returns 1?
piping output from programs that do not output to stdout
bash: why `printf` returns 1?
bash shell argument passing...?
bash shell argument passing...?
how can i create .sh extension file  ubuntu
difference between $@ and $*  script
help with if statements and else (newbie)
passing several values between two shell scripts
multiple files as argument  script
multiple files as argument  script
executing generated commands 
for-loop + echo changes the needed format of my output
getopts is not parsing my  options
can i take half input from file and rest from terminal
bash can't cd into a directory through another script
in gnu grep or another standard bash command, is it possible to get a resultset from regex?
embed a executable binary in a shell script
how can i run the executable file created by code::blocks on ubuntu?
sending html mail using a shell script
putty closes on executing bash script
bash shell $home assignment and script execution
bash: the run-command to the result header
what does ./${script##*/} mean in a bash script
how to get the nth positional argument ?
can seem to export environment variable from bash script
i need to write a perl script which will pass value to a shell script
how to open a bash/ssh session  and run commands in the remote session?
what display settings needed for running .sh installer for java 7 ee sdk on mac osx
executing jmeter on a unix box
how can i run a curl command for each line of output from my perl script?
nagios plugin script not working as expected
how do i export a single private key from the  in osx?
closing all processes holding a given port from shell
space  php argument called from linux script
what is equivalent to set verify off 
optparse, whitespace and bash
how to write output of cut to file
shell scripting hexadecimal counter
bash script putting input without input redirection for a c++ file
bash script putting input without input redirection for a c++ file
run sqlite3 with python 
how can i execute a python script directly (without prefixing by the python command) from bash?
python/django shell won't start
how to call matlab functions from the linux ?
screen will not start. no clue why
openshift memcached install fails
how to write a wrapper shell script for a java program in this case
pass string to shell script when run as command
risk of unquoted bash parameters/variables
mongodb - difference between running "mongo" and "mongod" databases
bash: more than one arguments for each flag
why is the following parameter in a bash script not working properly?
how to run a program with arguments with mono?
sed command to insert multi line string after multi line search
"" on $1, why does bash behave like this?
using a while/for loop with the 'find' command to copy files and directories
bash script for files in directory (backup)
why does using  leftanglebrc () in a shell script cause a syntax error?
join arguments - espace spaces
passing files randomly to a program
ffmpeg encoding run a shell command
run bash script with sh
merge two files by adding to each one of them absent strings (taken from another)
sending bash result to printer
read more than one parameters right after the command 
shell script password security of command-line parameters
use awk script from shell to search into a text file
how can i apply unix's / sed's / perl's transliterate (tr) to only a specific column?
how can i apply unix's / sed's / perl's transliterate (tr) to only a specific column?
ruby thor  tool commands
11*(...) as a bash parameter without quotation marks
get the status returned from the process that just finished
get the status returned from the process that just finished
write stdout to two different files (one overwrite, one append) 
how to make a bash insert script for mysql
make executable erlang program on the mac terminal
is unsetting global variables defined in a script good practice?
converting a shell script to a dmg
how can my bash script see a loop variable inside a  argument?
how to keep strings quoted  parameters
how can my bash script see a loop variable inside a  argument?
how can my bash script see a loop variable inside a  argument?
how can my bash script see a loop variable inside a  argument?
how can my bash script see a loop variable inside a  argument?
bash and variable substitution for file with space in their name: application for gpsbabel
bash:how to display regular files that have been changed at least x minutes ago, but not earlier that y minutes ago?
bash:how to display regular files that have been changed at least x minutes ago, but not earlier that y minutes ago?
bash script for downloading files with curl
bash script, read ends the script?
stdin from bash to perl script
@argv in perl ( arguments)
making python scripts work with xargs
how to use unix to pass all lines as parameters to a script
how to use unix to pass all lines as parameters to a script
making python scripts work with xargs
how can i define a bash alias as a sequence of multiple commands?
how to create installer of sh file in ubuntu
set environment variable /access in java program
suppress shell script error messages
how to make a "macro" to automate some bash commands in os x terminal?
simple unix redirection question: pass lines in a file as  arguments to a script
capture stdout in variable and redirect stderr
getopts truncates argument value
a good way to merge files accroding to the file name python or bash
why won't my bash script read numbers from the ?
how to pass parameters to myscript.sh which i need to execute using '/bin/bash'
gzipping up a set of directories and creating a tar compressed file
bash script to do operations based on file extensions where the input is the path to the file. macosx
bash script to do operations based on file extensions where the input is the path to the file. macosx
pipe tail output into another script
printing the ampersand
outputting text that auto updates to screen and file
bash pipes not working with my scripts
cannot login to mysql in mamp via the 
database access  scripting
run typescript compiler from shell command - permission denied
command works  but gives 'no such file or directory'  script
when would piping work - does application have to adhere to some standard format? what is stdin and stdout ?
when would piping work - does application have to adhere to some standard format? what is stdin and stdout ?
when would piping work - does application have to adhere to some standard format? what is stdin and stdout ?
calling a perl script as a shell command
combine some data from multiple lines
c program not accepting parsed input
shell script to accept special characters from input
shell scripting - which word is first alphabetically?
how do i send .png plot to stdout in gnuplot?
how to draw a graph from text file ?
how to draw a graph from text file ?
providing input files during compilation
using selfwritten .sh file in another .sh file
how does grep work?
how does grep work?
how to do a proper double or triple bash quote escape?
running another script and sending arguments ?
how can i pipe the contents of two different files as arguments using xargs and cat?
how can i pipe the contents of two different files as arguments using xargs and cat?
about behaviors of redirections with named pipe, grep and file redirections
is there a linux command (along the lines of cat or dd) that will allow me to specify the offset of the read syscall?
is it possible to cout to terminal while redirecting cout to outfile?
is it possible to cout to terminal while redirecting cout to outfile?
how to redirect standard input and output with bash
how to redirect standard input and output with bash
running a java class file using unix syntax?
using variables  script to set ini-file values while executing
how to bundle bash completion with a program and have it work in the current shell?
running command-line tool created with python
how do i take a part from terminal output?
run c++ program multiple times with different files as input
retrieve r output in php
what is wrong with my guessing game program?
passing timestamp variable to another script as a paramter
converting space delimiter to comma delimiter file using unix script
converting space delimiter to comma delimiter file using unix script
editing every file in a directory after opening it bash
merge / append files and re-number first column 
rails: how to run "rake" commands using bash script?
resizing images with imagemagick via shell script
running a variable script with parameters through a script
ksh: piping stderr and stdout into variable
store output of c program 
store output of c program 
store output of c program 
bash:how to pass special characters in to command prompt
bash:how to pass special characters in to command prompt
store output of c program 
unix: how to run a program with a file as an input
defining a variable when running a shell script?
passing file to shell script multiple times
bash expression evaluation order on 
bash expression evaluation order on 
bash expression evaluation order on 
online grep while generating output
grab last n lines from console output
converting cshell to bash
repeatedly run a shell command until it fails?
how to pass commandline argument with space  scripts
how does the terminal know which function it's to apply?
need to print second column of a file in output file
unix script - first letters of a string
pass content of file in variable into bash script - without writing the file down
bash bash script to find files
shell: redirect stdout to /dev/null and stderr to stdout
bash script search for file and replace if string found inside file using wildcards
bash script search for file and replace if string found inside file using wildcards
decrypting a variable in a scripting environment of linux
time taken by `less` command to show output
time taken by `less` command to show output
display octal value without being interpreted with tr?
display octal value without being interpreted with tr?
pass variable number of arguments to command
how to line wrap output ?
making a bash script switch to interactive mode and give a prompt
bash script exiting prematurely when calling another script inside it
query from file using awk
awk merge two files based on common field and print similarities and differences
customize file content display based on grep pattern
grep redirect non-matching
shell script to nohup every file in a directory
shell script to nohup every file in a directory
append string after each line from pipe line
need module to accept the timestamp from 
kind of tranpose needed of a file with inconsistent number of columns in each row
options with options with python argparse?
creating a structure (datastructure) 
creating a structure (datastructure) 
what's the best way to use r scripts on the ?
shell script for installation
why does this sh shebang not work?
bash script tail and export misbehaving
disabling hanging script
alias: how can i send "alias" to background?
case $1 bash script
bash to use "find" command and delete the user's pattern(using special arguments)
calling a function in bourne shell
run a script using a file as a parameter 
run a script using a file as a parameter 
bash and telnet to test an email
giving input to a shell script through 
using an array in awk when working with two files
delete a numbered range of files
shell script (awk)
how to find the n-th word in a file (linux shell)
how to list file names into a function
parameter expansion bash
bash script to archive files and then copy new ones
shell script fails when trying to set the date
how to tee to stderr?
remote sudo from local script with local redirection
remote sudo from local script with local redirection
how to echo a variable containing an unescaped dollar sign 
shell script to display output and store at same time?
wait for .sh script to finish before executing another .sh script?
wait for .sh script to finish before executing another .sh script?
pass arguments between shell scripts but retain quotes
passing an array from one bash script to another
bash reverse order of comma separated values
how do i alias a  command? (mac)
how to redirect the standard output of all the content within a shell script to a log file?
shell script to combine three files using awk
bash terminal closes after running a script
make bash script exit and print error message if users invoke the script incorrectly
make bash script exit and print error message if users invoke the script incorrectly
how to substitue character matches with trailing characters from the same text line?
bash: passing a variable into a script that has spaces
getopts checking for mutually exclusive arguments
getopts checking for mutually exclusive arguments
search two different strings in two columns
grep  script not working as expected
run a shell script on all files within a directory and its sub-directories
how to make * = '*' ?
how to make * = '*' ?
retaining quotes  correctly
bash string as argument for executable in quotes
edit windows .reg files with sed / grep: search for a filepath output regpath key value
custom  utility. how?
bash string parameter white space truncation
bash string parameter white space truncation
syntax error near unexpected token `do'
open a shell in the second process of a pipe
$0 in sourced bash script not returning script name
piping output of c program to file (bash)
why can't i pass a directory as an argument to a for loop ?
calling an executable within a nested for loop 
calling an executable within a nested for loop 
what does $@ mean in a shell script?
does bash have version issues that would prevent me from executing files?
bash scripting - shell command output redirection
bash scripting - shell command output redirection
passing arguments from shell script to jython script
why cant i redirect the output from sed to a file
input from terminal  leftanglebrc  leftanglebrc  leftanglebrc ?
run bin files on ubuntu
add an answer to a command 
how to pass two parameters or arguments  scripting
how to pass two parameters or arguments  scripting
porting windows batch file to shell script. if possible execute the task in parallel
how do i run .sh or .bat files from terminal?
calculate min, max, count  file
why part of the script cannot execute in the crontab
why egrep's stdout did not go through pipe?
how to get the difference between now and a different date (in minutes) using ksh (or another shell script)?
how to return a specific variable's value from a shell script?
cell-wise summation of tables in a linux shell script
cell-wise summation of tables in a linux shell script
why does less change order of output?
why does less change order of output?
readlink -f with spaces
incorrect  arguments number when passing `*`
incorrect  arguments number when passing `*`
shell script quotation mark disappear
redirect stderr to stdout in c shell
how to pass argument in expect through  
perl script log to file, output lag
how to get absolute urls 
why won't my ruby script execute?
pass variables to ruby script via 
run a bash including a variable in the "bash xxx.sh" command
trying to kill process by shell scripting
bash: storing a pattern in a variable without the pattern being evaluted
list all directories with spaces in their name
bash script to receive and repass quoted parameters
code to identify values in comma separated value file
bash: showing executed commands expect echos
bash: showing executed commands expect echos
insert text between two marker lines 
how to keep quotes in args?
retrieve plain text script from compiled bash script
expression not getting evaluated 
how to parse user input to bash script
what is the difference between $* and $@
#!/bin/ksh not working in redhat linux
regarding shell variable
what does the "$#" special parameter mean ?
what does the "$#" special parameter mean ?
check the order & validate arguments to shell script
global regex substitution with unique arbitrary values
matching text files from a list of system numbers
matching text files from a list of system numbers
how can i parse a date from file then insert a line after that matched date ?
bash script: copy directory to external drive - how to navigate directories?
bash script: copy directory to external drive - how to navigate directories?
how to make a file into a shell script and run it?
how do i log stderr and stdout synchronously, but print stderr to screen only?
getopts not working  script
sed not working with special characters
using expr to double a single integer argument
using return 
bash, look for pattern, prepend match with #, insert new string below
how to pass arguments in double quotes inside bash script
how to store standard error in a variable in a bash script
trouble passing multi-word argument from bash to expect
 script run in background goes in stopped state
execute shell script after other script got executed successfully
bash: getopts - ignoring option?
sort results from find and grab subset (bash)
sort results from find and grab subset (bash)
download a pdf from a js redirected link
download a pdf from a js redirected link
why my shell script is in standby in the background till i bring it back on the foreground?
curl takes forever to do an ftp upload
get exact quoted string parameters 
how to set the process name of a shell script?
send input to a program and get control back
how to automatically translate some node of xml file?
how to parse xml (in one huge string) with bash or ksh
add a ruby command-line application to /usr/bin?
how to periodically save the last line of a program's output?
terminating infinite loop with piped command in scope
bash - delete list of directories (including their contents)
bash add to end of file ( rightanglebrc  rightanglebrc ) if not duplicate line
how does set -- something work?
output sort | uniq in sections rather than waiting for complete input
parse a csv using awk and ignoring commas inside a field
pass list of arguments to a command 
invalid char ' ' ' in expression
how can i prevent bash from reporting an error when attempting to call a non-existing script?
bash float calculation issue
how can i remove .ds_store files from a git repository?
order in which command prompt executes files with the same name (a.bat vs a.cmd vs a.exe)
running applications within powershell window
makefile with multiple targets
makefile and rm -f file.{ext1,ext2,ext3} issue
makefile command conflicts with folder name
use result of pipeline as argument for another command
unix: getting export path to "stick"
how to pass arguments to the fitnesse .net  task runner
how can i guess the last time a repository was fetched/pulled from a remote?
how to know what table there are in a sqlite file?
redirect command output
unix: getting export path to "stick"
how to know what table there are in a sqlite file?
overriding windows cmd internal commands
error while using make to compile glibc-2.11.1  from scratch
how to check an input string  it's in version format (n1.n2.n3)
find multible missing lines in csv using diff
how to list files with numbers in their name and retrieve the numbers?
awk linux shell seems error
using sed to extract an email address
bash: search up a directory tree
match pattern append line but exclude pattern line
how to use regex to specify a series of patterns that are logically this or this or this or this?
using awk/grep/bash to extract data from html
awk, declare array embracing fnr and field, output
match pattern append line but exclude pattern line
match pattern append line but exclude pattern line
reseting a flag in awk
flex regular expression to identify awk regular expression
flex regular expression to identify awk regular expression
flex regular expression to identify awk regular expression
awk rounding up numbers
flex regular expression to identify awk regular expression
how to check an input string  it's in version format (n1.n2.n3)
how to use regex to specify a series of patterns that are logically this or this or this or this?
showing all invisible characters in vim
regular expression to represent time in a special format
sed replace every nth occurrence
awk matching of entire record using regular expression
awk end of line sign in regular expressions
awk removing all blank lines in a script (not with )
.awk escape character inside regex
sed to replace only matching part in search string
sed pattern command
rsync --delete --files-from=list / dest/ does not delete unwanted files
replacing the last column in a unix file with another value
can i multiply pattern match in sed address to print
awk rounding up numbers
running jquery on a static html file from bash
download all linked files from wikipedia page
set perforce maxresults from 
set perforce maxresults from 
download all linked files from wikipedia page
replacing part of text using sed
select xml element based on the value of a tag
select xml element based on the value of a tag
query an xml document with multiple identically named elements 
how to extract string following a pattern with grep, regex or perl
how to delete the words with the pattern in text file
sed regex replacing too many characters?
sed command - find and replace while excluding specific pattern in find
sed command - find and replace while excluding specific pattern in find
sed command - find and replace while excluding specific pattern in find
sed to replace only matching part in search string
mac osx, git mergetool, diffmerge, command not found
how do i source my .zshrc within emacs?
how can i script genymotion emulator to launch a given avd, headless?
bash shell alias not working as expected
cannot login to mysql in mamp via the 
access mamp's mysql from terminal
cannot login to mysql in mamp via the 
how to override the path of php to use the mamp path?
how to override the path of php to use the mamp path?
running matlab from unix shell script
mathematica in batch mode from the  on mac os x
mathematica in batch mode from the  on mac os x
building and running monodevelop solution in os x terminal
unable to find the packagemaker  tool in mac 10.8
create an app from a bash script that accepts arguments?
what's the difference between ln -s and alias?
sed regex and substring negation
 defines for rc.exe ms resource compiler to set version values in versioninfo
counting interface types with awk
python installation mess on mac os x, cannot run python
sed to wrap lines in text file?
editing text between two lines of text in a file with bash
set environment variable for the process before startup
python installation mess on mac os x, cannot run python
get wireless ssid through shell script on mac os x
get wireless ssid through shell script on mac os x
to run schtasks in windows xp using vb script
clearing chrome's cache, cookies, etc via ? (osx)
clearing chrome's cache, cookies, etc via ? (osx)
finding numbers in file (script, bash)
do i simply delete the bashrc 'return' command?
customizing a zsh shell
awk cmd to capture the line from stdout
-bash: /users/username/library/enthought/canopy_64bit/user/bin/activate: permission denied
how to remove a part of a string with variable?
using awk/grep/bash to extract data from html
sed + replace only if match the first word in line
why does my sed search not find alpha in field?
find multible missing lines in csv using diff
how to remove multiple lines in multiple files on linux using bash
regex remove comments but not shebang
ignore comments (#) using sed script, but keep the lines untouched
find and replace each line - bash script
linux awk help. having an awkful time
understanding sub used in an awk command
understanding sub used in an awk command
extracting lines from a file using awk
reading data from a file using bash and getting sum for some columns with awk
i want to delete a string from each line in a file
i want to delete a string from each line in a file
sed delete line with file path
at what stage is sed's pattern space printed?
will this function correctly?
ubuntu can't find rails as a user
how do i activate a virtualenv inside pycharm's terminal?
properly quote args for calling su -c
how to force /bin/bash interpreter for oneliners
run shell command from child shell
setting fuel_env for a crontab
how to set $term to a value when running /bin/bash via ?
c system() call parameter expansion
calling a bash command with -c and piped string for awk
i want to make a conditional cronjob
bash loop behaving unexpectedly
how do i launch a java process that has the standard bash shell environment?
can someone explain what these special variables mean?
ffmpeg encoding run a shell command
executing a shell script with an empty argument from java
how to pass parameters to myscript.sh which i need to execute using '/bin/bash'
using  rightanglebrc  /dev/null when setting a variable
force cp to overwrite when -i option used by defaul
get week of year from day of year
get week of year from day of year
get week of year from day of year
why does my (ubuntu 11.10 bash 4.2.10, x86_64 ) named pipe get clogged?
script with lsof works well on shell not on cron
why is my bash script not working
passing  arguments from xargs
can i use perl's switches with /bin/env in the shebang line?
shell script ending with a line containing only a colon?
"not found" error 
"not found" error 
sigpipe when echoing variable inside bash script
how to terminate script's process tree in cygw from bash script
convert a cygwin pid to a windows pid
convert a cygwin pid to a windows pid
how to get original system command after overwriting it with a function?
get a pattern in a string starts and ends with a specific character
how to avoid .sql file from a folder
how to avoid .sql file from a folder
why function ls { ls; } hangs in there?
trying to grep out the stderr from ls command
file execution with dot space versus dot slash
swapping two files 
cron job debain amazon ec2 instatance error
bash script to kill php process older then an hour
getting pid of process 
(sed beginner) replace characters in an env variable
cronjob command starts 2 processes, for 1 python script
send bash script into background on start
cron job: if/else conditions does not work as expected, if shell script is run from cron job
run a command as cron would but from the 
how does the final processbuilder command look like?
how does the final processbuilder command look like?
awk ignores printing a single column. sh -c
awk ignores printing a single column. sh -c
why do i get "/bin/sh: argument list too long" when passing quoted arguments?
cronjob command starts 2 processes, for 1 python script
unix at command pass variable to shell script?
unix at command pass variable to shell script?
c system() call parameter expansion
command runs in terminal but not via /bin/sh
command runs in terminal but not via /bin/sh
command not working as expected if run via /bin/sh -c
why does subprocess.popen() with shell=true work differently on linux vs windows?
why does subprocess.popen() with shell=true work differently on linux vs windows?
code does not work with sh -c, but works on sh directly
"/bin/sh 'ls -l -r'" vs "/bin/sh -c 'ls -l -r'"
how to output return code ?
how does the final processbuilder command look like?
bash scripting redirection not working, why?
system date into variable unix
"/bin/sh 'ls -l -r'" vs "/bin/sh -c 'ls -l -r'"
why doesn't fabric see my .bash_profile?
shell script and cron problems
use sudo in service start censtos
bash script wrapper for tar command takes a very long time to execute
what is a good default path to use if none is defined by the environment?
bash regex finding particular words in a sentence
modifying data using awk
svn update by executing tortoiseproc.exe in a script created 
git bash: launch application via alias without hanging bash (windows)
transferring from windows to linux with rsync
accessing outer shell variables inside nawk in ksh
android keyword error when installing phonegap
rsync: entrylevel 1
transferring from windows to linux with rsync
how to read a folder and move newly created files to two different network locations
how to skip lines matching a string
running java program from python
help with a shell script to store bank statements in a sparse bundle on osx
shell script to extract recursive xml tags
git_ps1_showupstream not displaying information
copying / tarring files that have been modified in the last 14 days
svn: force svn daemon to run under different user
in which file is the ubuntu system path set?
git_ps1_showupstream not displaying information
auditd - auditctl rule to monitor dir only (not all sub dir and files etc..)
how to write a bash script like the ones used in init.d?
execute commands with curly brackets on bash
git-upload-pack: command not found
whm / cpanel : manage wheel group users and ssk keys access
use "logger" to log into seperate logfile
grunt import database from shell
in which file is the ubuntu system path set?
how to get perl to loop over all files in a directory?
unable to update my bash in mac by macports
regular expression to represent time in a special format
passing bash arguments into sed to delete lines
shell script not working at startup even it add in /etc/rc.local
use the contents of a file to replace a string using sed
filter output and push filtered data into array with bash
odd x server error with ffmpeg
how can i run java file with parameters on linux?
converting a shell script to a dmg
ruby rvm under another user from bash script
how to run a rails model ?
running .sh files with java's exec in a different directory?
running .sh files with java's exec in a different directory?
running .sh files with java's exec in a different directory?
running .sh files with java's exec in a different directory?
running .sh files with java's exec in a different directory?
how to call a shell script and pass argument from another shell script
running python program after it is terminated via crontab
google's web starter kit error running gulp in git bash  terminal
starting rails instance server from an absolute path?
effective user id does not change after making the file owned by root
what does ~ mean  scripting
, how can i get the absolute path of the python binary i am using from the ?
no bashrc in ubuntu gnome
passing file into program with bash
make a program reload an already opened file on file change
make a program reload an already opened file on file change
why part of the script cannot execute in the crontab
why part of the script cannot execute in the crontab
run rake outside of rails_root/incron doesn't run rake or bundle commands for rails
what directory is '~' when i type 'cd ~'?
assign a shell variable in awk
can not create dump file with following command in java
new to scripting. need jar to run with on a large list of files
how to specify error log file and output file in qsub
vim replace part of filename with something else similar to zsh cd
vim replace part of filename with something else similar to zsh cd
bash protect a script from getting copied by users
daemonize/background a process launched via script from another program
why points rsnapshot backup to live-system?
why points rsnapshot backup to live-system?
how to pass variables from shell script to expect script?
shell script fails when executed by cronjob, works fine otherwise
unable to update my bash in mac by macports
can't seem to install id3v2 on linux, doesn't seem to be any errors
odd behavior of pgrep  script
calling perl script from perl
vs2010 web publish  version of file system deploy
remove trailing slashes on multiple arguments 
passing argument to alias 
passing argument to alias 
how to set the process name of a shell script?
nagios plugin script not working as expected
bash: only last iteration of loop index not being stored as new element of array
running r scripts with plots
why won't my bash script read numbers from the ?
php cli and bashrc files?
log rotating with a bash script
how do i execute javascipt programs from the linux shell?
ksh: piping stderr and stdout into variable
shell script ruby command not found
unix script - first letters of a string
callback script with space 
break shell output to files
: command not foundop/dominio.sh: line 2:
get substring from start index to end index
why i got "sh: 1: syntax error: unterminated quoted string" when i run my python program?
string replacement  script giving error
regexp (sed) suppress "no match" output
get a bash's cwd
tracking / monitoring system
assign awk output to awk variable
running script and executing php for output
what are $0 and $1 in an awk script?
embed xml file in c# assembly - 
calling bash script in the same context from parent directory
what does ~ mean  scripting
how to send mail depending on stdout?
blkid not giving output  when run in file
bash script linux - process output of ifconfig -a output
terminal command to get just ip address and nothing else
how can i fetch the ethernet port given the ip address?
linux bash script use return of function
how to get pppd inet address from shell command
putting ip address into bash variable. is there a better way
applescript utility problems/bash/ process detection
starting a service (upstart) from a shell script, from a cron job
run a shell script on all files within a directory and its sub-directories
python import library from tar.gz?
how to launch programs into background within a bash for loop
replace from nth occurrence of pattern till the end of line with sed
replace from nth occurrence of pattern till the end of line with sed
what's the meaning of -bash phpunit command not found
auto-complete awk variable
passing a shell script as user-data in amazon aws ec2 request-spot-instances
awk onliner script to search files under a dir for 2 strings
why does my command-line not run from cron?
how to capture the event of changing a file in a folder?
running a script from another script
running a script from another script
running a script from another script
how can i process a perl array element in a shell script?
grep first three octets of an ip address
how to delete the ^m from standard output and standard error
ksh: how to pass arguments containing white space between scripts?
is there a command which will print the path of the file in the repo-browser in the ?
sqlldr not found when using sql*loader in a shell script
how to replace "/" on path string with " " using sed?
redirecting the shell output to a file
bash script string comparison error, can't figure out
how to run knitr from shell script
how to execute remote pysftp commands under a specific shell
how to set a default value in an if snippet?
pass a large variable into the diff command via bash
hide error language from bash shell script
can't execute any basic command  console
shebang pointing to script (also having shebang) is effectively ignored
bash trace mode (bash -x) in the shebang
how to deal with /usr/sbin and /usr/local/sbin ?
python script not waiting for user input when ran from piped bash script
python script not waiting for user input when ran from piped bash script
how to find zsh environmental variable from bash script?
how do i cause variables to expand within a smbclient command?
php script not executing on linux boot
printing username using awk command 
ifstat logging bandwidth usage
eclipse  build
shell script not running via crontab, runs fine manually
bash terminal and color output
eval to variable failing (w/crontab)
pass a variable value in crontab
bash script - cron job to back up a database weekly
using date to append filename to database backups made by cron
problems after hombrew uninstall
can't access .bash_profile
error in sh eval code, "$: not found"?
changed path variable and now terminal won't accept most console commands
why doesn't this simple applescript work?
how to clear shell buffer in terminal  x?
why does my command works in the cli but not with a cron job?
execute php script from bash , assign output to a bash variable
exec to launch php as background process
custom  utility. how?
how to use cron and codeigniter/php to query a mysql database?
exec to launch php as background process
how to invoke a php script using shell script?
use the output of a command as input of the next command
run  through php (w/casperjs)
bash how to add new line and comment to the log file
should i use "| at now" or ampersand (&) to run the script in background?
should i use "| at now" or ampersand (&) to run the script in background?
bash programming: get name of one-and-only subfolder of given directory
exactly what does env do ?
postgresql command execution  script
why won't the python shebang take more than three parameters?
what does #!/usr/bin/... at the start of a file mean?
obtaining pid of last command run on other machine
data pipeline script with while loop stuck in waiting_for_dependencies state
how to know what script header to use and why it matters?
unable to create remote directory named as a date
comparing 2 arrays 
script doesn't work when called from cron
how to fix path variable  on mac osx snow leopard
svn post-commit execute (if message ~revision.blah)
subversion post-commit hook to update 'staging' version not working
subversion post-commit hook to update 'staging' version not working
using tee in a bash script (on solaris)
shell script in android gives  leftsquarebrc : not found
how to use gnu time with pipeline
how to use gnu time with pipeline
how to ignore program's output when using /usr/bin/time?
is there a way to pipe output of time command into a log file?
/usr/bin/time of a bash script containing ampersands
redirect a process to file and redirect its time to a file
how to ignore program's output when using /usr/bin/time?
bash: every command errors out to "command not found"
how to restore .bash_profile on a mac? none of my unix terminal are working
handling space in winexe reg query command
xcode "build and archive" from 
unix environment variable is not setting with execute remotely
how to format cowsay output from a bash script
how to use kill sigusr2 ?
how do i create keyboard shortcuts programmatically in kde?
building retrostyle terminal in opengl
changing process name using shell for nagios monitoring with check_procs
find os number of updates available
editing a plist from within local bash script folder
edit ipa plist file 
whitespace escape when substituting one bash variable into another variable
grep only specific section of file; determine os x system version in a shell script
, how do i use defaults write on a plist for a existing element in an array?
script parameters 
bash script to get variable from second bash script
git-upload-pack: command not found
"command not found" with custom run script and xcodebuild
bash continu on error
bash continu on error
how do i test (in one line) if command output contains a certain string?
problem running cake shell in cronjob
using argument to call php 
how can i upgrade lxml for python2.6
getting redis up an running with ruby
sed command not being run from bash script
script to redirect the output to a file not working with cron
what does it mean to "find a command in a path"?
how to run my own programm using command ?
run shell command in php from mamp
bash - check if cpanel is installed on the server
bash - check if cpanel is installed on the server
script working manually but not via crontab?
run shell command in php from mamp
imagemagick convert pdf to png
ruby through rvm fails
script for checking the android version and then carry on installation?
script for clearing exim queue & sending email myself with email & subject in email
redirecting stderr & stdout to /dev/null in aix fails
passing parameter to bash shell script through input redirection ( leftanglebrc )
to grep the value of row and column from the output of a command 
bash script doesn't work as cronjob
shell problem: sending variable with multiple flags to a cmd
shell problem: sending variable with multiple flags to a cmd
pass special characters from input to bash script
how to copy file with ksh unix script to new directory after download?
how does one override an existing zsh keyboard completion?
extend ps output to more than 80 characters in solaris 8
awk to print nth line from a file
how to make sed read the script from script file?
how to use sed to delete next line on solaris
grep command response silently
revising an one liner
how do we find a file that is located some where in directory tree
how to find the mysql data directory from  in windows
detecting when a log is no longer being written to, tail -f
detecting when a log is no longer being written to, tail -f
automatically recreate a lot of different links to renamed directories or files
run script inside ksh shell script
why points rsnapshot backup to live-system?
why points rsnapshot backup to live-system?
why points rsnapshot backup to live-system?
cakephp run cakephp shell in browser for debug purpose
cakephp run cakephp shell in browser for debug purpose
magento compiler - 
magento compiler - 
magento compiler - 
monitoring directory changes with iwatch - getting new file's name not the full path?
backreferences in sed returning wrong value
how to hide command output 
how to hide command output 
parsing and replacing multiple lines with sed
how to give user input in cronjob script
screen will not start. no clue why
bash - most efficient method of setting this script as a timed/routine event?
edit a file before an rsync / mv
trying to write a shell for cakephp to use in a cron job
advice on using crontab with bash
advice on using crontab with bash
how to send an email from unix script
advice on using crontab with bash
how to output the start and stop datetime of shell script (but no other log)?
how to limit shell script execution time?
what does this cronjob do?
django delete uploaded files in schedule if it is useless
unable to enable globstar  4
crontab: access to bash internal variables
bash script to copy random directory contents to another location
creating tar file naming by current date backup never run
script has to be executed x times in 24h. how do i randomize that?
creating tar file naming by current date backup never run
creating tar file naming by current date backup never run
is this the correct format for a cron job?
write the crontab entry for printing the report file /usr/aa1/finacc/bsheet on first monday of every month?
sequence of php scripts  script executed by cron not running
using qsub within crontab?
scheduling shell script in crontab
cron jobs: monitor time it takes for jobs to finish
cron jobs: monitor time it takes for jobs to finish
how to schedule a shell script  centos?
how to schedule a shell script  centos?
how to schedule a shell script  centos?
tar archiving via cron does not work
amazon auto start server via cronjob
how to run sunspot reindex in background for every four hours
how to run shell script  x everyday or set a timing?
using a variable  and running as a cron job
linux script to run multiple commands at specific time
cron tar with file filtering
redirecting the output of a cron job
why does my command works in the cli but not with a cron job?
why does my command works in the cli but not with a cron job?
why does my command works in the cli but not with a cron job?
macosx cronjob item not executing
how to test crontab entry?
run cron with an interval of 12 hours
run cron with an interval of 12 hours
cron jobs and random times, within giving hours
bash pipestatus in backticked command?
awk doesn't work in hadoop's mapper
how to match 01-47
pattern match and find another pattern in the next line
any other way to print $0 without using print in awk?
monitor log size activity
using wget and cron to download webpages
how do i have a cron run and check which crons are currently running
crontab scheduling confusion
what would be the right way to declare an array within a script that will be called by cron?
insane crond behavior. keeps making defunct bash processes
cron : how to schedule to run first sunday of every month
bash or php cron script to clear out email
can't execute command from crontab?
can't execute command from crontab?
linux/awk convert file containing decimal to hex
explanation of convertor of cidr to netmask  netmask2cdir and cdir2netmask
explanation of convertor of cidr to netmask  netmask2cdir and cdir2netmask
dc(1) and leading zeros
bash script, parsing binary number from obase to string?
sed copy substring from fixed position and copy it in front of line
output the record by comparing string in other file using awk script
bash and awk: converting a field from 12 hour to 24 hour clock time
how to get the first numbers with sed linux
bash: how can i subtract two time strings using bash?
bash piping output and input of a program
curl get only a specific piece of data
grep string inside double quotes
how to redirect complete output of a script
splitting a timestamp in the middle of a line
how to delete substring from string?
php zend frmawork cgi implementation?
shell: redirect stdout to /dev/null and stderr to stdout
shell: redirect stdout to /dev/null and stderr to stdout
shell: redirect stdout to /dev/null and stderr to stdout
shell: redirect stdout to /dev/null and stderr to stdout
how to summarize running time
how to summarize running time
why doesn't this bash expr command work?
bash variable assignment not working expected
explanation of convertor of cidr to netmask  netmask2cdir and cdir2netmask
explanation of convertor of cidr to netmask  netmask2cdir and cdir2netmask
explanation of convertor of cidr to netmask  netmask2cdir and cdir2netmask
what does an ampersand in arithmetic evaluation and numbers with x's mean ?
how can i get the middle value of a shell command  script
how to use a nested if and perform correct file checks 
shell script - how to split a string with delimiter ","
trying to call a function 
how to execute sql queries from a shell script
enable/disable tasks in crontab by bash/shell
if first space is 2 space, make it 1 in a file
regular expression, sed, path extraction
awk is inserting whitespace
copy a variable  (linux)
parsing functionality 
printing lines which have a field number greater than, in awk
performing string comparison with carriage return 
php exec command is not working with awk command
setup cron job to ping computer and write result to file
why awk arithmetic doesn't work?
how to print values on single line
what is happening behind bash forward process substitution?
i need to merge two files and create a new files
i need to merge two files and create a new files
understanding script language
linux bash: multiple variable assignment
sed script that will find a match in a line, and the change another part of that line
array intersection 
split a string  to get all fields upto final '.' (bash)
how to split text and get only array value by using shell script?
extract range regular expression in awk
awk code to calculate throughput for some nodes
how to build a conditional assignment ?
awk + add print in case of match
insert space between pairs of characters - sed
why does awk "not in" array work just like awk "in" array?
how to delete duplicated rows on one file based on a common field between two files with awk?
the meaning of "a" in an awk command?
gather the data with similar columns
how to delete duplicated rows on one file based on a common field between two files with awk?
printing lines which have a field number greater than, in awk
how to search goosh.org from the ?
how to assign an output to a shellscript variable?
passing variables into awk from bash
trim column to fixed length in file 
how can i insert a character at a certain position in a csv line
how to output awk result to file
pass array to awk which contains the column numbers which need to be printed
sed script to edit csv file or python
sed script to edit csv file or python
awk split var twice
how to get a value from file and store it in a variable? (using shell script)
howto 16bit left logical shift all ip addresses in csv file (octets 3&4 become 1&2)
awk multiple variables for multiple file processing
extract version using regular expressions 
split a string  to get all fields upto final '.' (bash)
how to write shell script to get jre version
 how to check through scripts what version of java is installed?
awk and numeric comparison with number less than 1.7e-308
shell script: concatenate string while interating
filling space/tab separated, empty columns with 0
generating cron configuration with bash?
comparing the two values line by line from two different text files
what is the right bash syntax to add two numbers from string array?
how to do exponentiation 
expand ssh hostname 
extract ip addresses & cidr from text using regex in a linux shell
regular expression to get minutes not seconds
longest line in a file
a large hex to binary conversion in bc
bash: back quotes and eval confusing behavior
how to add up hours and minutes spent on a task in awk?
how to find the command on the scheduled `at` job?
sed and regex to replace ',' except inside a string
explanation of convertor of cidr to netmask  netmask2cdir and cdir2netmask
pitfalls in renaming files 
explanation of convertor of cidr to netmask  netmask2cdir and cdir2netmask
explanation of convertor of cidr to netmask  netmask2cdir and cdir2netmask
explanation of convertor of cidr to netmask  netmask2cdir and cdir2netmask
pass "file name" from a text file to a  where each line of a file is file name
awk: merging columns from files
how to *return* *only* the nth occurrence of a regex match using sed?
passing a pointer variable to store an array of strings ( arguments)
script seems to take more time when run as cronjob
what does this regex mean and why
how do i call the split function in awk to split a string on "\."?
regex to modificate domino http log to common format for piwik import
bash shell - return substring after second occurrence of certain character
how can i parse this string out ?
awk to skip csv rows with second field blank
understand sed usage
go to a specific offset in a document
replace the match itself, not the wild card, using awk gsub or generic regular expressions
error in awk of shell script
awk/gsub - print everything between double quotes in multiple occurrences per line
check if tomcat is running via shell script
awk: mktime returns -1
trim text and add timestamp?
gawk and systime()
using pipes in awk
gawk: inverse of strftime() - convert date string to seconds since epoc timestamp using format pattern
gawk: inverse of strftime() - convert date string to seconds since epoc timestamp using format pattern
how to delete duplicated rows based in a column value?
bash + mysql -d backtick issue
how do i return a value from a function that modifies a global variable?
php/shell remote svn tarballs
about system time in a bash script
how to count spaces between coloums
standard deviation of an arbitrary number of numbers using bc or other standard utilities
count total bytes in a big file between two chars matching some rules by line
parse log and output 2 strings in 1 command
parse log and output 2 strings in 1 command
explanation of convertor of cidr to netmask  netmask2cdir and cdir2netmask
how do i write a sed regex to extract a string delimited by another string?
awk print n results of search in one line and add comma separation
regex in notepad++ like sed
how to split a string  delimited by tab
how to split a string  delimited by tab
bash script to get command values in two files and write is a pattern to new file
how to do a while loop with a string redirected into it
remove the last element from an array
how can i get the length of an array in awk?
how to count empty translations in .po with grep (or other lsb tool)?
c# console application does not read from the , as it should
parameter not being passed to shell script copyfile.sh: 1: copyfile.sh:  leftsquarebrc d: not found
how to find files, parse and modify the results, and sort from the ?
selecting a field after a string using awk
unexpected eof cronjob error
a good way to merge files accroding to the file name python or bash
multidimensional arrays in awk
check if string exist in non-consecutive lines in a given column
regex  expression
awk associative array
search regex on a specific field using awk
how to convert those characters not quoted to upper case?
using tee with logger : syntax error near unexpected token `('
unable to get crontab to run bash scripts
working with awk regex
find all numbers between two numbers 
bash: using cut on space delimited file: treating two spaces as one
how to get the datetime in an internationally agnostic way from the windows command-line?
rename files based on sorted creation date?
set file's icon in a  utility not working
how can i use regex to get a certain string of a file
convert julian timestamp to regular time 
json datetime between bash script and javascript
grep part of nth lines linux
grep part of nth lines linux
how to get a path where the cocoa program runs?
comparing 2 dates in the log file
bash time to mysql datetime
obtaining yesterday 
bash: grab part of string from a  output
converting a time stamp from microseconds past midnight using awk
how to make date command work in relation to custom specified date?
formatting with bash date is not consistent
formatting with bash date is not consistent
find pattern from log file using awk
bash - getting the last modified date from file without using stat
store the date (timestamp) of the oldest file from a directory  in a variable (shell script)
c shell doing arithmetic operations with large numbers
awk automatically rounding off the output
add symbol every 2 bytes
create an output file from two input files based on column match
convert julian timestamp to regular time 
merge/concatenate based on a condition
why bc and args doesn't work together in one line?
find difference between two dates 
how to get a parameter from a complex xml text 
currency parsing and conversion using shell commands
currency parsing and conversion using shell commands
currency parsing and conversion using shell commands
shell script, grep valid ip explanation
ftp mget does not show successful completion
bash pipestatus in backticked command?
explanation of convertor of cidr to netmask  netmask2cdir and cdir2netmask
explanation of convertor of cidr to netmask  netmask2cdir and cdir2netmask
apache log analysis: unique visitors by date by os
apache log analysis: unique visitors by date by os
see pids only by specific users 
awk does not return what i want
bash function that changes directory
using sed with regex to put underlines back in links in hundreds of css files
${2:-$2} what does this piece of code do
a perl script to list all the exceptions and their number of occurrence
two file numeric comparison in awk
two file numeric comparison in awk
awk - if column = null
column by column comparison 
passing positional arguments (specifying columns) to awk interpreter
explanation of convertor of cidr to netmask  netmask2cdir and cdir2netmask
output of $(3-1) 
is there a way to write this cron command succinctly?
howto 16bit left logical shift all ip addresses in csv file (octets 3&4 become 1&2)
bash script, parsing binary number from obase to string?
why cygwin cron cannot find a file when cygwin ls can?
how to simulate the environment cron executes a script with?
cron: sending output to file then emailing file to me
can cron jobs use gnome-open?
bash - how to pass arg values to shell script within in a cronjob
use result of pipeline as argument for another command
how to count number of forked (sub-?)processes
sed not working with special characters
why this echo construct does not work?
search for matching lines and combind the output on a single line
when to escape special character 
time difference between two timings if they run more than a day 
when to escape special character 
sort a csv row 
modifying data using awk
dc(1) and leading zeros
at what stage is sed's pattern space printed?
awk: create list of destination ports seen for each source ip from a bro log (conn.log)
script not reading last line of a file
getting a specific line from a string where the line number i must get is stored in a variable?
adding numbers without grep -c option
finding the frequency of an expression in all files of a directory
swap the 2 colums in output ----sed or awk?
replace and delete characters in a shell script
wrong status value from bash script
floating point rounding 
floating point rounding 
bash: grep exact matches based on the first column
how can i remove the time-stamp from the contents of a log file
need help interpreting this sed command
does $! mean something ing
how to do reach specific section of text file and then search
how to schedule a task on linux server machine while php interpretator is accessible?
recursive method print string and counts down by 1 and deletes 1 letter for each recursion
crontab scheduling confusion
cronjob command starts 2 processes, for 1 python script
cronjob command starts 2 processes, for 1 python script
script not working via crontab
replacing a pattern using sed command
return minimum point in a range of points in csv data using awk
bash script to add first 10 numbers i.e 1 to 10 using control statement
is it possible to cross reference bash and python variables in python script
zsh command substitution
how to automate execution of commands by day and hour on debian?
crontab syntax error
how to create tar that gets updated for 2 weeks
how to manage nohup.out file in tornado?
cronjob command starts 2 processes, for 1 python script
cronjob command starts 2 processes, for 1 python script
shell script to email results of sqlplus query using mailx in aix
multidimensional arrays in awk
use subprocess.popen to run a unix tool that requires multiple input redirects
find number, and remove adjacent characters equal to this number
find number, and remove adjacent characters equal to this number
find number, and remove adjacent characters equal to this number
finding numbers in file (script, bash)
how to use regular expressions in awk script?
how to use regular expressions in awk script?
how to use regular expressions in awk script?
bash xhtml parsing using xpath
adding integers from multiple lines in a file
awk : comparing difference of files with different delimiter
use awk to calculate sum for multiple columns
search for regular expression with the symbol '
bash regex expression '.*'
bash regex expression '.*'
awk: convert notation of a number while i multiply columns
pass parameters to php with shell
check memory per processes and subprocesses
compressing only files using 7z without preserving the path
compressing only files using 7z without preserving the path
programmatically extract tar.gz in a single step (on windows with 7zip)
7-zip: how to open add to archive dialog box from ?
match a string that could have a newline anywhere in it in - bash
how to convert rows into column using awk?
which tool should i use to extract data from string?
bash: grep exact matches based on the first column
gawk command in matching data
copy files to my usb only 
how to make grep select only numeric values?
dc(1) and leading zeros
find lines that don't begin with a " leftanglebrc ", perform action
how to enable or disable multiple "echo statements"  ecript
how to enable or disable multiple "echo statements"  ecript
using an environment variable to pass arguments to a command
disable functions by unset
disable functions by unset
what does this if-statement from a bash script do?
bash assign default value
how to log if an environment variable is unset?
what happens when pipe char directly followed by the redirection ?
shell script with c preprocessor directive
shell script with c preprocessor directive
applying passwords to scripts
setting default with getopts 
setting default with getopts 
bash: easy way to put a configurable load on a system?
what does this bash script do?
why is whitespace sometimes needed around metacharacters?
file/calls substitution like ld_preload
osx bash, 'watch' command
what's wrong with this bash script
error with bash script
is there a way to print the time every minute from a piped tail command without interrupting the output?
vim: pipe selected text to shell cmd and receive output on vim info/
replace output of lines through external command
how to display the non-whitespace character count of a visual selection in vim?
find and replace a csv in column mode in vim
bash func - how to take the argument before function as parameter
how to fix a shell script that divides mp3 files into chunks and sends them to google speech to text api to retrieve their content in textual form?
bash scrip expecting then, when else is needed
bash process substitution and syncing
in gnome-terminal/bash, can std output be run directly (interpreted?) as a command?
how to execute command inside vim?
vim: chmod command is not an editor command
vim: chmod command is not an editor command
bash shell turns to symbols when using vim ack plugin
vim: running java from vim command gives error
how to swap two fixed column values for each occurrence in vi shell?
how to swap two fixed column values for each occurrence in vi shell?
execute command for several lines in vim
execute command for several lines in vim
execute command for several lines in vim
vim replace specific character in a word in a line
sed in ubuntu linux, replacing a pattern by printing in a new line
replace 
convert single line of code to block format
search a pattern in each line and append it at the end of that line
regex in vim editor
making each line double vim
i have a file with so many lines which needs find and replace 
first occurrence on every line vi/vim/sed etc
check if directory exists not working
shell script to check if program should be running and restart it if appropriate
rearrangement rows to columns on linux
how to tell sed "dot match new line"
convert file one word per line
how to only lowercase quoted string in vim
regex in vim editor
using 'sed' to trim html tags and unnecessary whitespace
vim removing xml tags
zsh completion according to a parameter
execute current line  from vim
vim: command-line selection
vim: command-line selection
vim: how to go to exact line on ubuntu
vim: how to go to exact line on ubuntu
how to use sed within vim editor to replace a pattern?
how to start linux shell dynamically
what :a, ba mean in "sed -e :a -e '$d;n;2,5ba' -e 'p;d' file"?
re-indenting multiple files (latex) with vim
re-indenting multiple files (latex) with vim
in vim, how to set "args" to the result of a "grep -l"?
using vim to remotely edit a file on serverb only accessible from servera
vim ftp auto upload
find file in directory from 
how to change encoding for existing file with vim
difference between 'cat -a'  and 'set list' in vim
vim ftp auto upload
vim: portable way to edit " leftsquarebrc 1 rightsquarebrc " when "1" exists
unwanted line breaks  command (from vim)
copy text to clip board
combining multiple lines into one line
substitue backslash to forward slash in #include statement
sed/awk replace word in specific position of sentence
how to exclude several lines around match with grep or similar tool?
how to transform {{{...}}} to markdown code blocks with sed or vim?
how to quickly change directores in vim?
why does :s command regex not understand '?'
run a vim command from a python script
setting the titlestring in vimrc to simply be the filename being edited
setting the titlestring in vimrc to simply be the filename being edited
is it possible to specify the bash prompt using a command-line option?
how to compile/jump-debug using cmake/gcc within vim
wc output differs inside/outside vim
how to execute command inside vim?
how can i replace intraline tabs with spaces, maintaining alignment?
how can i replace intraline tabs with spaces, maintaining alignment?
how do i specify "the word under the cursor" on vim's commandline?
best way to read output of shell command
why does vim sometimes show ^m and sometimes not (even if they are there)?
why does vim sometimes show ^m and sometimes not (even if they are there)?
vim - shell working directory integration
showing all invisible characters in vim
difference between 'cat -a'  and 'set list' in vim
diff - difference in files
how to unveil hidden differences between two apparently identical text files?
how to wrap text on column#2
vim: how to go to exact line on ubuntu
vim: how to go to exact line on ubuntu
shell commands from vim
is it possible to specify the bash prompt using a command-line option?
commands executed from vim are not recognizing bash command aliases
how to compile/jump-debug using cmake/gcc within vim
can’t set color of vim
setting the titlestring in vimrc to simply be the filename being edited
loop in the bash shell
share settings between multiple machines by source control system
bash shortcut to get parent of last used parameter
vim open a file found through grep
how to remove blank lines without using tr?
how to extract string following a pattern with grep, regex or perl
find wordpress hooks and filters using vim or similar
great tools to find and replace in files?
save file as root after editing as non-root
how to change encoding for existing file with vim
vim ftp auto upload
why does "locate filename | xargs vim" cause strange terminal behaviour?
changes in multiple splits at the same time
using bash to read pdf content
shell script error
problem with floating point comparison
how to escape path separators in file path?
preventing bash from evaluating filenames in variables
split string into array 
phpinfo is reporting incorrect pcre version
zsh: command not found (for $editor)
simple grep mismatch problem
error trapping scp exit code not working
what is the mistake in this shell script
what does '$?' mean  scripts?
what does '$?' mean in a shell script?
what does if  leftsquarebrc  leftsquarebrc  $? -ne 0  rightsquarebrc  rightsquarebrc ; mean in .ksh
about replacing string with sed
regex match entire contents of file 
calling bash commands from ruby
replace "man" by "?"
passing parameters in udev rule
using sed to copy lines and delete characters from the duplicates
how could i execute other commands while using registry keys in windows?
telling the rspec which input to use in a interactive ruby script? (solved)
what is the shell/open/command proper syntax?
multiple python installations in system path
multiple python installations in system path
boo to the chocolatey gods
how to list files with numbers in their name and retrieve the numbers?
how to add a character in front of multiple words 
development.log log file isn't logging rails sql queries
syntax error in cshell script
how do i determine what shell a script was meant to use?
 parameter while
bad comportement while check error during makefile
bad comportement while check error during makefile
how can i issue a single command from the  through sql plus?
concatenating a direcotry of html with windows batch, the path is echoed into the file. how do i stop the file name from being included?
sourcing shell scripts from perl
sourcing shell scripts from perl
how to remove similar redefinitions from a file using perl
piping findstr's output
sqlplus script from file with bash substitutions
cronjob to run hourly and email result
how to convert directory sass/scss to css via ?
how do i use a shell script output as input for perl script (to delete files with permissions)?
how can know ssh is disconected and retry with bash script
how to run script file on ubuntu every time ubuntu starts
how do i write a bash script to restart a process if it dies?
bash script for ghost blog not starting up on server reboot
start rails server automatically when ever i start my ubuntu machine
bash script for ghost blog not starting up on server reboot
understanding a makefile with automatic dependencies: problems with 'sed' part
understanding a makefile with automatic dependencies: problems with 'sed' part
make: snippet not working as expected
how do make dependency generation work for c? (also..decode this sed/make statement!)
ruby variable from an external shell command
how to transfer variables that have spaces from shell to oracle sqlplus
explain ${var:-val} and ${var+val}
evenly distribute repetitive strings
evenly distribute repetitive strings
rolling checksums in the rsync algorithm
if fi  leftsquarebrc : too many arguments
bash if statement with multiple requirements not correctly failing test
bash if statement with multiple requirements not correctly failing test
rolling checksums in the rsync algorithm
convert an integer inside a bash loop into a variable
how do i add `watch' command to a shell script?
how do i add `watch' command to a shell script?
flock using error message if not able to get lock on the file
how to append a file name  with a string and current date
awk does not return what i want
bash 'printf' equivalent for command prompt?
kornshell variable definition: what is ?foo?
deleting repeated characters in a string bash script
how to grep and replace it multiple files and multiples elements on os x
modify existing code for creating menu names in an interactive shell script
, how do i replace \r from a variable that exist in a file written using html  leftanglebrc textarea rightanglebrc  leftanglebrc /textarea rightanglebrc 
extracting shell script from parameterised hudson job
bash: whitespaces removed from string
syntax error near unexpected token `do'
deploying postgresql with bash - syntax error
is there a way to itirate through mulitple array using a for loop 
why are these if statement not working?
why are these if statement not working?
linux: make output into one line
why is an if statement stopping my bash while loop?
acrobat (reader): to open at a specific page number via  on windows
shell command meaning and htaccess file?
java  character encoding
how do i run a exchange 2007 powershell script from the ?
shell command meaning and htaccess file?
cygwin sshd use cmd instead of bash upon login via putty
how do i replace the second occurrence of string 'allowoverride none' with 'allowoverride all' using sed
extract info from filename for automatic copying
extract info from filename for automatic copying
comparison between processing of sorted and unsorted integer arrays
why this permissions denied issue with a shell script inside an applescript writing to my desktop folder?
possible to call executable thor-powered script without calling thor?
sed replace if part of word matches
bash - getting next month script?
how do i archive a set of files using perl on win32 while retaining file paths?
how to insert a python program into a bash script?
how can i capture every "set -x" log to syslog?
per repository authzsvnaccessfile apache rule with a single apache config file or other shell script solution
per repository authzsvnaccessfile apache rule with a single apache config file or other shell script solution
how to suppress error message from shell that is invoked by a c++ binary file?
how to suppress error message from shell that is invoked by a c++ binary file?
how interrupt a program using pipe
how to call nested program 
how do i write a sed script to grep information from a text file
inserting date into sql script
shell script takes variable as a command
unix $random function not random  terminal
how do i get the script name being executing ?
are there environment variables which are reliable always set?
get substring between first and nth occurence of pattern
how to stop sed from buffering?
awk solution for table formatting
syntax error in awk if else
extra newline coming from somewhere
extract data from a file
how to suppress awk output when using fs?
how do i use bash to selectively remove newlines?
how to find file in each directory with the highest number as filename?
how to find file in each directory with the highest number as filename?
using sed to change  leftanglebrc cr rightanglebrc  leftanglebrc lf rightanglebrc  to a symbol
how to print everything after a match?
how to execute shell to install a file from artifacts dir in jenkins
extracting string  using grep
(awk) creating a username column using the characters from first name and last name columns
(awk) creating a username column using the characters from first name and last name columns
wix bootstrapper: how do i set burn variables from the ?
vi mode to emacs mode while on r
to bind clear to ^l 
tab autocompletion  vi shell mode
automatically timing every executed command and show  prompt?
custom readline functions line?
copying only files in a directory
newbie in snort
run multiple commands in a single line in windows command prompt
windows powershell - simplest way to run a bunch of commands and save output
installing laravel 4.1 in windows 7 // make .phar file globally available to windows 
what is the command for cut copy paste a file from one directory to other directory
what's the clearest way to replace trailing backslash \ with \n?
cygw -c yields different argc depending on whether the command start with c:/ or something else
run eclipse project from 
opening file with spaces in windows via command prompt
how to run in-line sql script in the ?
dose not creating rar file with command prompt in windows 7
java: run multiple shell commands?
how to run a binary file  that's not in current directory?
use sed to replace all backslashes with forward slashes
windows shell string operations (changing backslash to slash)
cygwin ssh shortcut from windows desktop
i can't find my mingw shell after installing with gui installer
run bash -c without exit
i can't find my mingw shell after installing with gui installer
should environment variables that contain a executable-path with spaces also contain the necessary quotes?
native-maven-plugin error with msvc compiler "the  is too long."
using grep -rl " leftsquarebrc search rightsquarebrc " . how can i open each file found in notepad++
piping gdalinfo.exe to matlab/octave with system() does not return any output
setting java_home
how do i get rid of errors in .bat file that aren't affecting outcome of the script?
help running a dos script with a space in it
how to automate a build for a visual foxpro project?
grunt import database from shell
how can i read  parameters from an r script?
problems executing script from  in r. error message: cannot find path specified
extract all .gz file in folder using vba shell command
running php file from 
javascript redirect timeout
open outlook.exe from cmd with body text containing newlines
c# console application does not read from the , as it should
how to execute python scripts in windows?
how to install git shell
c++: how to use  arguments
need to navigate to a particular folder on the cmd
need to navigate to a particular folder on the cmd
what does (set path=...;%path:)=^)%) mean in a windows shell script, and how can i overcome failure of this line in the context of a qt5 nmake build?
get pom.xml property from commandline
'fc' is not recognized as an internal or external command, operable program or batch file
windows shortcut to run git bash script
windows shortcut to run git bash script
which console commands will build a javascript projects into .appx windows 8 metro applications?
web deploy/publish web site project using msbuild.exe and  with vs2010
 output to a txt file (java.exe -version) returning blank
cmd works but c:\windows\system32\cmd.exe does not
making msbuild's exec task display the interactive shell
why two same string but concatenated differently have different results  context called with python?
how to run a binary file  that's not in current directory?
why two same string but concatenated differently have different results  context called with python?
output cygwin/bash results to text file
output cygwin/bash results to text file
start perl script via "windows command" through cygwin
how to code in java to run unix shell script which use rsync internally in windows environment using cygwin?
running mysql from windows 7 
sql dump upload to phpmyadmin
zip -j command, what does the -j option mean?
compiling multiple packages using the  in java with external jars
how to pass a parameter containing & to a bat file from cygw
how to pass a parameter containing & to a bat file from cygw
run eclipse project from 
run eclipse project from 
run eclipse project from 
execute a script that outputs a result in a txt file or ini using the cmd line in php
automatically run php script in task scheduler windows xp
run php composer.phar from wampstack
installing laravel 4.1 in windows 7 // make .phar file globally available to windows 
how to run a batch script from within a batch script
sourceing a setup.sh gives bash error /tmp/setup.sh.dpe4btgizy: cannot overwrite existing file
sourceing a setup.sh gives bash error /tmp/setup.sh.dpe4btgizy: cannot overwrite existing file
redirect error message to file - shell
running multiple shell commands in makefile
running multiple shell commands in makefile
run c scrips from a shell script
how to make a string preprocessor definition from command-line in vc 2005 (c++)?
java  compilation not updating
how to not wait for a process to complete in batch script?
copying multiple binary files to one single binary file
batch file that opens cmd prompt types string as 
linux create symlinks based on most recently modified files
linux create symlinks based on most recently modified files
unix : find different behaviour from dir to dir
arithmetic syntax error 
redirection operator is limiting columns
how can i rsync all my web nodes off of a master?
grep file content from piped content
shell script to make many directories
run/invoke windows batch script from sh or bash script
run/invoke windows batch script from sh or bash script
find duplicates of a file by name in a directory recursively - linux
how to get a field participating in 'n' records in a file using awk when some other field has same value in all those 'n' records?
open com port and send hexadecimal bytes from windows command prompt
loop condition 
why doesn't this bash expr command work?
use mysql command tool to create database proble
mysql  help (windows)
show columns alias in mysql
my sed command generates two outputs. how can i store the outputs into two variables instead of file?
awk: splitting a string into pieces
how to implement  curl into php curl request
how to implement  curl into php curl request
problems with grep command  script
untarring a moved file with shell
java execute jar which depends on other jar from 
not able to create runnable jar for eclipse project
timer elapsed event firing twice in c#  program
how to match a column name and find out the column position in awk?
(conemu + cygwin) how to change tab name of conemu from within a cygw script
c# debug log console app
creating virtuallbox disk in vm folder with bash
why won't my console display the copyright symbol ©?
class 'app' not found while running cakephp shell
class 'app' not found while running cakephp shell
running cakephp shell script
bash check element in array for elements in another array
bash check element in array for elements in another array
on-the-fly zipping & streaming of large files, in php or otherwise
on-the-fly zipping & streaming of large files, in php or otherwise
on-the-fly zipping & streaming of large files, in php or otherwise
mac osx, git mergetool, diffmerge, command not found
imagemagick convert individual frame delay in gif
watch file output  terminal as it is being written to the file
how can i launch powershell.exe with the "default" colours from the powershell shortcut?
most powerful examples of unix commands or scripts every programmer should know
how can i access the bash history with exact search, not prefix one?
how to find and remove old redirects in a mod_rewrite setup?
can't use wildcards 
why "d:\0.0" doesn't substring of "d:\0.0" while using "findstr" command of windows command prompt
can't unzip chef cookbooks on windows  - 'tar' not recognized
cygw from windows cmd not running executable
removing pattern at the end of a string using sed or other bash tools
filtering multiline pcregrep match with sed
export variable from a shell script into a perl script
how can i enable a debugging mode via a command-line switch for my perl program?
mysql  with variable
getting mysql column from the 
how to read linux man pages?
for loop that takes input file is not working
bash regex: replace string with any number of characters
cut the last 2 characters of cmd.exe script response
unix shell script does not send intended email
how to print the contents of an osx textclipping file from terminal?
how do i copy from numerous release directories to a single folder
got an error while executing bash commands on remote ubuntu machine "no tty present and no askpass program specified"
what does "visudo: warning: cmnd_alias `nopasswd' referenced but not defined," mean?
how to pass a password  script?
add a user to ubuntu server from php script
got an error while executing bash commands on remote ubuntu machine "no tty present and no askpass program specified"
sudo will break importing my script
got an error while executing bash commands on remote ubuntu machine "no tty present and no askpass program specified"
got an error while executing bash commands on remote ubuntu machine "no tty present and no askpass program specified"
php exec sudo/exim commands
got an error while executing bash commands on remote ubuntu machine "no tty present and no askpass program specified"
how to use xcopy to select specific folders(not files) within another folder
how to toggle airplane mode in windows 8 from cmd or powershell
how to toggle airplane mode in windows 8 from cmd or powershell
how to fetch field from mysql query result 
shell script - linux - list empty directories
how can i make the display of a line in my command-line java program change without displaying a new line?
source from within emacs to load environmental variables
overriding windows cmd internal commands
invoking external commands with options from a makefile
echo -e option in ubuntu doesn't work
why "cat a.txt | xargs vi" destroy the bash?
bash: permission denied when trying to open a file
increment variable in awk based on two columns
bash - only printing certain parts of a matrix using awk
print just the last line of a file?
shell scripting: echo vs save to variable
heroku: upload single unversioned file
is it possible to export environment property from ruby script?
change environment variable value during execution
can we set a variable used in perl script as environment variable
what is the equivalent of bash export in perl?
perl + replace ip address only if octet is valid ip
perl + replace ip address only if octet is valid ip
changing the path from perl
where is $path in a system() declared
unexpected end of file 
import .csv to update database with .sh
syntax error: unexpected end of file
syntax error: unexpected end of file
git show/log without shell escape sequences, for use with python sh
how to read linux man pages?
init.d script hanging
getting mysql column from the 
how do i get the opposite of the if construct ?
how to mix and/or operators in an if-else in a bash script?
how to toggle airplane mode in windows 8 from cmd or powershell
plsql automation in interactive mode
original  as typed
btstask addresource fails even with shared assemblies in gac
invoke a java app from shell script
execute commands using function calls s
gfortran: fatal error: no input files compilation terminated
gfortran: fatal error: no input files compilation terminated
can not run java program from  which resides in package
shell if statement based on cammand output/completion
hash inside makefile shell call causes unexpected behaviour
hash inside makefile shell call causes unexpected behaviour
how to compare two columns in multiple files  with awk
how to compare two columns in multiple files  with awk
how to use shell commands in makefile
makefile get list of files and join
understanding script to check if file exists or not
bash redirect to a file
awk column replacement, but line numbrs are different between files
understand sed usage
words before and after selected text
bash quoted array expansion
calling mysql from inside an innosetup project
shell script to compare directories recursively
how to find date n days in the future from past date?
gitlab get tar of a specific branch via 
variable in awk regular expression
catching errors  with glassfish commands  leftsquarebrc return code in pipes rightsquarebrc 
list of active directory group members that are not disabled
windows  get folder size
powershell analogue of bash's `set -e`
change paths from slash to backslash in a file with powershell
learn sql the hard way - continued troubles with creating .db from .sql with sqlite3
how can you find and replace text in a file using the windows command-line environment?
pass unix timestamp to rest api using curl under windows
why is `help format-list` not the same as `format-list | help`?
difference between mkdir and mkdir -p?
how to toggle airplane mode in windows 8 from cmd or powershell
script/commands that can read system drivers and os platform details
creating a 'git publish' alias, but need to store temporary variable
how do i add a line of text to the middle of a file using bash?
how to extract numbers from text file using windows batch file?
makefile; mirroring a growing tree through a process
how do i know when the task from  is finished?
tortoisesvn  diff
windows explorer right click context menu for files and folders
how to execute python scripts in windows?
how to execute python scripts in windows?
programmatically access the "open with" windows explorer menu list from .net
run software as exclusive shell application?
why %processor_architecture% always returns x86 instead of amd64
.zshrc not working (accidentally deleted first line)
copying file with spaces on mac
incorrect ctags called from os x 
access video file information using standard unix utilities
how does the terminal know which function it's to apply?
preventing bash from evaluating filenames in variables
cat can not open a file
getting short path for ssh
shell script `read` prompt for path not working with spaces / special chars
makefile for program running on different machines
how to run shell script command with double quotes in the argument?
how to run shell script command with double quotes in the argument?
how can i have output from one named pipe fed back into another named pipe?
run linux script from java
unix shell: sort a string by word length and by ascii order ignoring case
when would piping work - does application have to adhere to some standard format? what is stdin and stdout ?
extract one pattern or another from output - not entire line
bash - if statement combined with mail command
how to extract text between two words ?
objective-c shell escaping
shell command using strings to determine the file name
multiple conditions in if
what is the proper way to test if variable is empty in a batch file, if not "%1" == "" goto somelabel, fails if %1 has quotes
batch file - ren command's errorlevel returns 0 even on failure
how to emulate "mv --no-clobber" in a batch file?
how do i use a shell-script as chrome native messaging host application
how to print everything after a match?
compiled freeimage from source. #include freeimage.h not found
problem with bash code
escape awk $  function of bashrc
escape awk $  function of bashrc
how do i set an environment variable in a linux makefile
linux bash: setting iptables rules to allow both active and passive ftp
running sybase sql commands from dos/windows batch file
does bash echo show up in ps
comparison between processing of sorted and unsorted integer arrays
redirecting iostat output to a file
powershell: how to count number of rows in csv file?
sqlite data change notification callbacks in python or bash or cli
how to open a pptx file using shell script
picking file names out of a website to download in powershell
comparison between processing of sorted and unsorted integer arrays
shell scripting, run in parallel processes
how do i redirect stdin from a shell script to a command in the shell script?
can this script wait for an external process to complete?
how to find matching records from 3 different files 
using jq to parse json in launchd
convert accountexpires to datetime in powershell commandline (last step, help needed)
grepping or awking an ldap record: how?
formatting the date /linux
alternate merge strings 
passing a shell script as user-data in amazon aws ec2 request-spot-instances
awk does not capture z using a regex  leftsquarebrc 0-z rightsquarebrc  range
expect script with in a bash script does not work if i set environment variables  script before control reaches expect code
why does this shell script fail if i split it in two lines?
why does this shell script fail if i split it in two lines?
bash script error let: -: syntax error: operand expected (error token is "-")
how do i store the output of a bash command in a variable?
how to replace a special character from a column of file
android build system: how to include prebuilt files from a .tar file?
android build system: how to include prebuilt files from a .tar file?
awk linux shell seems error
bash if else statement
how to create the option for printing out statements vs executing them in a shell script
rbenv and two versions of the heroku client
why does the word boundary not match?
what's the cgi-bin equivalent of getrequestdispatcher("/myurl").forward(request, response)?
bash pass variable to function
can i concatenate 2 strings  the same way as in c?
how to prevent emacs from hard-wrapping lines
emacs remote shell
emacs lisp: is it possible (using lisp) to run command in an eshell working in other buffer?
emacs lisp: is it possible (using lisp) to run command in an eshell working in other buffer?
emacs lisp: is it possible (using lisp) to run command in an eshell working in other buffer?
open an emacs buffer when a command tries to open an editor -mode
"expected parenthesis" error  script
what are normal checksum
windows 7 symbolic link - cannot create a file when that file already exists
php filename encoding conversion issue
open com port and send hexadecimal bytes from windows command prompt
combining awk and csum to hash a field
how do i store the results of a shell command in a makefile?
bash backup script
running mysql script from cmd.exe in ms windows 7
shell script - how to split a string with delimiter ","
bash no such file or directory
unix shell script while loop
xargs: unterminated quote
xargs: unterminated quote
unable to run jar file from 
not able to create runnable jar for eclipse project
windows shell, passing parameters to running instance of an application
windows shell, passing parameters to running instance of an application
using gsub to replace a double quote with two double quotes?
grep initial space
grep initial space
windows software loading times
linux delete spaces after a character in a line
bash: ssh into server, query mysql funny stuff
using pattern  parameter expansion
installation directory by  for installer file
how can i using pattern matching on field aready in an awk statement?
how to read linux man pages?
bash - how to read file contents to insert results into mysql where clause
converting columns of a text file
$(shell …) command in makefile is not executed correctly, but works /sh
unix skipping first line if empty
why is awk's ofs only applied to the first line?
insert lines in file
how do i make a git credential helper?
get result from shell script objective-c
how can i get my cocoa  tool to know the working path that it was called from in the terminal?
locate an ios app directory using a cfbundleidentifier
cocoa: using unix based commands to write a file
how do i deny log on through terminal services (rdp) from a ?
platform-independent way of detecting if git is installed
compare two files by two column matching
finding values in text files using batch file
why is this simple bash trap failing
can command aliases be added to a dos shell automatically?
is this .sh file malicious? i don't know where it came from
is this .sh file malicious? i don't know where it came from
foreach: grep backtick in for-loop
why is this simple bash trap failing
extract one pattern or another from output - not entire line
php to shell script to php for a value via passwordless ipv6 ssh tunnel
make: ***  leftsquarebrc clean rightsquarebrc  error 64 error in makefile
bash: clearing the screen completely including prompt
issue while loop apache status
mysql - returning only max result from an id
how to get rpath with $origin to work on code::blocks gcc?
how to get rpath with $origin to work on code::blocks gcc?
how to get rpath with $origin to work on code::blocks gcc?
how to get rpath with $origin to work on code::blocks gcc?
is it possible to print the awk output in the same line
make: capture output of shell command and return code at same time
does the `shell` in `shell=true` in subprocess means `bash`?
gedit open in new window then new tab
comparison between processing of sorted and unsorted integer arrays
vim how to insert text, save and exit from bash
windows bat alternative  inline command
zsh give file argument without creating a file - syntax?
what to do with a $ character in variable
how do i get make to prompt the user for a password and store it in a makefile variable?
bash - hiding command (preventing from bad manipulations)
making a executable into a shell command using a c program
reload xinitrc without restarting xorg
pythonbrew install zsh on ubuntu
issue with setting $path directories
.bash_profile corrupted not found, command not found... help restore it back to the original
crontab: access to bash internal variables
osx: setting enthought python path in .bash_profile results in weird terminal behavior
-bash is messed up?
what does echo path $path \$path do?
variable path  using cron
bash - $path and ${path}
linux mint - adding environment variables permanently
quotes in quotes in quotes in a "linux" shell
completely confused with my $path, iterm, and zsh setup
-bash: otool: command not found, can you teach bash a default location to look for a command?
turn an application or script into a shell command
/sbin/service lazyness shortcut
can i export path twice in .bashrc?
how to fix path variable  on mac osx snow leopard
how do i edit the path variable to include a variable
setting path _profile
beginner in need of bash assistance
how do i edit the path variable to include a variable
osx: setting enthought python path in .bash_profile results in weird terminal behavior
bash - $path and ${path}
awk syntax for enclosing {}
problem executing a class when using php cli
how to use python with different socks 5 proxies?
replace a text with sed which has variabables
android build system: how to include prebuilt files from a .tar file?
android build system: how to include prebuilt files from a .tar file?
android build system: how to include prebuilt files from a .tar file?
android build system: how to include prebuilt files from a .tar file?
bash argument passing to child ($@ or $*)
understand sed usage
bash: setting an environment variable from within my script doesn't set it anywhere else - how can i export globally? simple example within
check if ad user was part of the ad group which could be in its sub group
bash script to alias ssh. better/optimal way to do this?
setting colors for prompt in git bash on windows
terminal not working with color-prompt
on ubuntu colored multiline ps1  works wrong with arrow up history
cygwin terminal prompt color causes havoc
ctrl + a shortcut works incorrecly 
bash, always display colored bar at top of screen
bash ps1 settings - how to get the current folder back as the terminal title
how to add last command in zsh prompt?
customize zsh's prompt when displaying previous command exit code
terminal overwriting same line when too long
changing bash parent shell
how to get the actual shell prompt string in python?
changing bash prompt in new bash
display  prompt
bash: displaying absolute path with symlinks resolved in prompt
terminal input does not start new line
show exit code on shell prompt always 0, why
bash, always display colored bar at top of screen
how do i permanently change the terminal prompt in iterm2 using zsh?
in windows xp, how to run a exe on some computer in lan and make it run on that computer by using a batch file in my computer?
$pwd vs. pwd regarding portability
apply a script to subdirectories
change output path of program 
: how to parse a " " separated string?
nf  rightanglebrc  0 checked two times on the unix programming environment
c# call an app using the 
how do i run a command in a list of directories using bash?
error in creation of postgresql from bash - install & import
whm / cpanel : manage wheel group users and ssk keys access
git-upload-pack: command not found
why my ~/.bashrc is sourced while i'm connected and not when i only execute a command?
unable to set many characters to the field separator in awk
how to launch powershell script from the os ?
how to launch powershell script from the os ?
how to run a powershell script from a batch file
open files and folders in same window in sublime text
prevent * to be expanded in the bash script
tar with --include pattern
the code to execute del command using cmd.exe is taking forever
c#: i want to pass messages like a file path to my forms application like a console application, how would i do that?
command prompt inside a java program
 utility to print statistics of numbers 
problems with single quotes in a bash script
problems with single quotes in a bash script
problems with single quotes in a bash script
plotting and saving r graph
with sequential calls to $r cmd or $r --vanilla, do i have to reload libraries in each r script?
running r scripts  or commands with interpretor  -layman
can i accesss an external file when testing an r package?
how to create a random string in standard shell on hp-ux
which characters to quote is shell script assignment?
how to find and extract a substring from a command output?
how to find and extract a substring from a command output?
bash script variable
trouble adding an integer to an array element 
fltk g++ compile error
how to resume screen (gnu screen)
cannot delete a file even when logged in as an administrator
replacing specific lines in multiple files using bash
inspect and retry resque jobs via redis-cli
inspect and retry resque jobs via redis-cli
apache modrewrite pattern not stored
how to find and remove old redirects in a mod_rewrite setup?
robocopy | mirror destination including source parent folder
create and execute an r script just like perl -e to script r in a shell such as bash?
why my bash can't execute r script?
running r scripts with plots
 arguments  to rscript
plotting and saving r graph
r  passing a filename to script in arguments (windows)
passing header as argument in rscript (different result from running code in gui)
passing multiple arguments via  in r
passing multiple arguments via  in r
passing multiple arguments via  in r
navigate shell command not working when the path includes an hash
getting the file name without extension in a windows batch script
repeat last command with "sudo"
using sed in osx to rename files
checking/ moving files based on regex
how to change start up type of a windows service using 
bash parse file using sed
handling input from script piped to netcat
heroku: upload single unversioned file
how to read linux man pages?
how to adjust display settings of mysql ?
mysql select, many fields, how best to display in terminal?
list all entries in a postgresql datatable
how to check if a postgres user exists?
how to display the value of a variable at the commandline in mysql?
adding a sql alias statement to an sql select * from command in vb.net
adding a sql alias statement to an sql select * from command in vb.net
how to get the intersection line between two .csv file?
query an xml document with multiple identically named elements 
know any tricks for navigating the mysql cli?
list all environment variables from ?
sed special character
gwt hosted mode script windows
gwt hosted mode script windows
missing include when compiling qt with visual studio 2010
missing include when compiling qt with visual studio 2010
java  compilation not updating
java  compilation not updating
freetds/unixodbc update failed because the following set options have incorrect settings: 'concat_null_yields_null, ansi_warnings, ansi_padding'
error while importing magento database via ssh
error while importing magento database via ssh
gwt hosted mode script windows
debug php  script in phpstorm
read file with multiple empty lines from oracle db with bash
what is wrong in the for loop i use to create a file source=dest list?
how to run a tcsh shell command and selectively ignore the status?
using paste with parentheses in makefile
bash is not recognized?
shell script to export environment variables in make
can you wrapper each command in gnu's make?
syntax error when using bash syntax in makefile
use the same command , just with a prefix
keep mysql connection open to submit multiple queries from shell
use the same command , just with a prefix
trying to create a bash function
open com port and send hexadecimal bytes from windows command prompt
ebay api soap request works in soapui but not from shell
git - checkout single file under bare repository
shell scripting: using a variable to define a path
maintaining a list of programs i don't want make to compile that i could change with  rightanglebrc  rightanglebrc  and sed instead of editing the makefile?
corrupted zip file after sending it via ftp  (.bat)
wait for vsix to finish installation before launching visual studio
problems with shell-script while!
batch: start application doesn't show a gui
how to get an actively refreshing tasklist  (windows vista)
why is windows 'run:' different from cmd line?
how to append a file name  with a string and current date
basic bash script variable declaration - command not found
basic bash script variable declaration - command not found
 what does if  leftsquarebrc  "$var"  rightsquarebrc  mean
awk ''attempt to use scalar `sum' as array''
how to check if files committed to svn is encoded in utf-8 with pre-commit hooks?
why does iconv exit with error when reading from svn transaction and not from svn revision?
why does iconv exit with error when reading from svn transaction and not from svn revision?
per repository authzsvnaccessfile apache rule with a single apache config file or other shell script solution
how to read linux man pages?
terminal command to open new safari window
xmlstarlet: how to select items to build a hash
what should the assembly names be for an application providing both a gui and command-line interface?
cut of word from a string and store result to variable
add quotes to words matching regex in file awk or sed
how to execute php code from the ?
script to output a string that contains a different matching string from a flat file
mac terminal process complete exit
grep filtering output from a process after it has already started?
msbuild 4 with /pp (/preprocess) does not write preprocessed file
converting bash shell scripts to batch files
spoofing the username environment function in access
how to change the value of a function's parameter  script?
 to update svn folders
windows powershell - simplest way to run a bunch of commands and save output
iis redirection - 
touching htaccess file in sh script
how to create a triple nested  string for shell function in vba?
how to create a triple nested  string for shell function in vba?
how do i call a windows shell command using vb6?
get/set tshelllistview path/folder as string (not using .root)
using 7-zip  from vba
sed to replace strings with special characters
running java jar files with script
why is this simple bash trap failing
sed: what to do with backslash?
sed: what to do with backslash?
sed regex between multiple same characters
how can i remove everything except listed files with the find-command?
converting bash shell scripts to batch files
spoofing the username environment function in access
pass input to terminal automatically?
keytool usage with runtime.getruntime().exec() under linux
how do i run a unix terminal from java and send commands to it?
file not uploading file over ssh if the size is under 200kb
how to "top -m 10 -n 1" command output save to string in android code?
how to "top -m 10 -n 1" command output save to string in android code?
how to run mac os terminal commands from java (using runtime?)
java runtime.exec to run shell script
java runtime.exec to run shell script
executing shell script which contains a while loop from java
running shell commands though java code on android?
java run  which contains spaces
java execute a bash script using java process builder
is it possible to get output of "tail -f" command to java programme?
missing field and extra space after using for loop in awk
how to escape parameter in windows ?
technique to compute next day's date from a date supplied via an arg?
convert mm-dd-yy hh:mm to a valid rss date using sed
how do i get the name of the current executable in c#?
gnu 'ls' command not outputing the same over a pipe
how can i make bash tab completion behave like vim tab completion?
shell script tar error
makefile bash autocompletion issue with php generated targets
makefile bash autocompletion issue with php generated targets
killing a process  or shell using a script
two lines of shell script
can you emulate "set -e" and "set -x" via the environment?
can you emulate "set -e" and "set -x" via the environment?
can you emulate "set -e" and "set -x" via the environment?
changing login account used for tf command-line
changing login account used for tf command-line
how to change case for such a case like this?
bash-script: how to combine a command with a variable name?
sed/awk capitalize strings
execute perl script as passed argument
pass all parameters of one shell script to another
read mail out of maildir direcory with correct encoding and use 
shell command to retrieve specific value using pattern
using texttransform.exe to generate code from edmx file
passing a variable to a command in a script
find file's own path
shell script : how if condition evaluates true or false
shell script : how if condition evaluates true or false
concatenate  the output of two commands without newline character
need a simple preprocessor to operate on text file
can svn mv be optimized to svn copy+delete?
function  to commit and push in one command
linux bash - replace multiple occurrences of a char, omitting single occurrence
finding and replacing numbers around ^'s in a file
find difference between two dates 
batch file to get and store the svn log in local directory
regex to find matching pattern
regex to find matching pattern
awk and numeric comparison with number less than 1.7e-308
awk and numeric comparison with number less than 1.7e-308
using tar to compress log directory, what happens when apache tries to write during compression?
how to check if mongodb is up and ready to accept connections from bash script?
how do you clear an unexecuted mysql query from the ?
sed/awk replace word in specific position of sentence
how to calculate a hash for a string (url)  for wget caching
how do i bind c-? ?
how to get a valid font name on linux system which can be used in .xresources config?
how to get a valid font name on linux system which can be used in .xresources config?
bash - checking if user is logged via ssh
coffeescript compile on windows with nodejs
ssh to remote server through windows batch
renaming files with adding a number to filename 
adding suffix after 80 column using regular expression
why this single and double quote make so much difference in output
"warning: permanently added to the list of known hosts" message from git
when would piping work - does application have to adhere to some standard format? what is stdin and stdout ?
get ouput from shell script back into a makefile
store command to file
multiplication error 
exporting environment variables to makefile shell
messy bash variable
linux/bash: sourcing a script and then assigning it to a variable
multiplication error 
creating virtuallbox disk in vm folder with bash
how to use awk to separate string contains space 
docker run statement (modifying a file) not executed
shell script not seeing files debian
counting the number of files in a directory 
unexpected token ( with xmlstarlet
how do i search for a string and put it in a variable ?
wait for vsix to finish installation before launching visual studio
php header location opens url more than once
unix script to exit from oracle error when using a wait statement
how to find date n days in the future from past date?
what does this variable assignment do?
what does this variable assignment do?
unable to run call subprocess method using python 3.2
how to add git remote repos name repeatedly in jenkins shell?
how can i have output from one named pipe fed back into another named pipe?
powershell analogue of bash's `set -e`
makefile loop variable
can i define environment variables for a compound command only once?
can i define environment variables for a compound command only once?
how can i configure the "delete" key to delete a word in c shell
how do i bind c-? ?
sed substitution on c-style (single-line) comment
sed substitution on c-style (single-line) comment
automate ftp using shell script
windows batch (.bat) command to modify the date format of a column
sed/grep after a for cycle
units of measure regex manipulation
unix shell to prompt user for filename
using bash system calls in c to write c that makes bash system calls
using find in a directory in node.js
awk rounding up numbers
why does sed require 3 backslashes for a regular backslash?
how to split a tab-delimited string  script without collapsing blanks?
why does sed require 3 backslashes for a regular backslash?
regex for greping emails in file
how can i grep a keyword which contain underscore?
ansi escape codes for coloring inside bash printf
bash - check if string variable equals form feed
iterating through a list of commands in a file  programming
bash parameter expansion changes original string
trailing newlines get truncated from bash subshell
bash script: can't execute mencoder command!
if statement regex or bad echoing ? (bash 3.0)
bash + awk : looping over an array of 4 elements that returns size of 1?
when setting ifs to split on newlines, why is it necessary to include a backspace?
read file line by line and remove characters shell script
xargs doesn't recognize bash aliases
iterate all files in a directory (including files that start with '.' - hidden files) /android
how to create a dynamic variable array name and fill it with multi-line text  script
working with bash arrays inside an expect script
split string into array 
multiple values fror ifs ing
unix script - stripping cr and lf to pass to variable
how do you start a program stored on a unc share from the  with parameters?
my sed command generates two outputs. how can i store the outputs into two variables instead of file?
invisible terminal output is breaking a script
muti word command completion 
split text file into array based on an empty line or any non used character
if first space is 2 space, make it 1 in a file
, how to make control-delete mean kill-word?
validating input with regular expression 
validating input with regular expression 
flex - regular expressions - matching comments in awk
regular expression to match this type of string
is my regex too greedy?
bash regular expression -- can't seem to match \s, \s, etc
adding an || regx to a bash ``ed one-liner in a perl script
do search and replace on commands from terminal history
a regular expression to grep specific paragraphs of a file
sed swapping 2 lines
sed swapping 2 lines
uploading to an ftp server
uploading to an ftp server
fltk g++ compile error
how do i get bash completion to work with aliases?
how to use bash completion-functions that are defined on-the-fly?
, can i pass an array as args of a function (as xargs does)?
, can i pass an array as args of a function (as xargs does)?
running imagesnap in php with mac server
automatically sum numeric columns and print total
bash if statement issue, cannot evaluate gt
ftp: why does !cd not work?
how to execute windows cli commands in ruby?
how to bundle bash completion with a program and have it work in the current shell?
 & rightanglebrc  redirection not working?
type command shows 3 identical locations for file
bash shell; read command; using cygwin on windows 7
capture the output of a shell script which is invoked from another shell script
capture the output of a shell script which is invoked from another shell script
execute a bash command on a list of files as stdin and redirect the stdout on other files
call a bash script in perl
can bash i/o redirection work within a ruby script?
perl backticks: use bash instead of sh
ruby exec use functions from my ~/.bashrc
bash for loop has syntax error only when run from a ruby script
can't execute history command through ruby
why didn't back quotes in a shell script help me cd to a directory
how do i use backticks to change directories?
git & ruby: how can i unset the git_dir variable from inside a ruby script?
using find in os x to identify then correct permissions
is command substitution $(foo) bashism?
unix print output on one line
how do you invoke program  and give a variable
why is this slash needed?
using grep inside shell script gives file not found error
bash subshell: parenthese:() vs dollar-parenthese:$()
os x cp command in terminal - no such file or directory
why didn't back quotes in a shell script help me cd to a directory
alert if the output of command is missing a particular string
linux redirector to log filename with $date variable
auto-update the date in a bash script
how can i use groovy to execute a shell command that has backticks?
how do i use a command in an if statement in a terminal script on mac?
comapring data sets in two delimited files
bash script to update postgres database
hpux shell script: split string, put them in an array then loop them
how do i replace  leftsquarebrc  rightsquarebrc  brackets using sed
using grep -e with variables
replacing the string of the file name and using it in the same shell script
get hostname from string using bash script
intepreting string  script using inotifywait and avconv
can't capture and echo pid by $!
how to print echo statement in formatted as cat command ing?
bash: if  leftsquarebrc  "echo test" == "test" rightsquarebrc ; then echo "echo test outputs test on shell" fi; possible?
how can you retain the quotation marks when outputting a shell variable?
how to execute windows cli commands in ruby?
check for stdout or stderr
unix formatting output variables
unexpected bourne shell script output of case statement
unexpected bourne shell script output of case statement
grep output into array
grep output into array
is there a way to capture the output of a command, and its return value into variables in a shell script?
1: command not found
in a ruby script, how to ask git to open its message editor
executing shell command from ruby console returning permission denied error?
how to do sum from the file and move in particular way in another file ?
use grep to match a pattern in a line only once
elegant and efficient way to start gui programs from terminal without spamming it (bash or any posix shell)
how to print different results to a screen and to a file in python?
why didn't back quotes in a shell script help me cd to a directory
linux: bash: what does mkdir return
can't capture and echo pid by $!
for loop / unix2dos to clean a group of files with specific extension
cleanest way to read config settings from php file and upload entire project code using shell script
bash printf + echo string
bash printf + echo string
bash script: spawning multiple processes issues
how do i escape the "return" function in a bash script
passing a variable into awk within a shell script
how to print echo statement in formatted as cat command ing?
how do i get ruby to make a noise (make my computer beep or play a sound/track) when my script breaks?
bash script to update postgres database
bash: how to easily edit one line in a 5.4g sql dump
search and replace specific lines for a build configuration from xcode scheme file
sed command - find and replace while excluding specific pattern in find
bash command in perl script
tar/bzip files without including the folder structure
what effect does this line have in a shell script?
shell hangs when assigning command result to a variable
how do i divide the output of a command by two, and store the result into a bash variable?
bash executing the result of a command
how to use 'coproc' to interact with another command driven program
how to store bash shell script in the json document effectively for python script
how to store bash shell script in the json document effectively for python script
how can i replace the same string several times with different random values in perl?
is there a cleaner way to add "else if" to assignment conditional in awk, etc.?
unable to refer to a parameter 
quotes in quotes in quotes in a "linux" shell
adding additional arguments to a shell script with optional args
difference between && and || in c and unix shells?
why does git-pull fail with signal 13?
why does git-pull fail with signal 13?
what does $@ mean in a bash script?
what does $@ mean in a bash script?
what does $@ mean in a bash script?
bash - convert array to lines (for using sort & uniq)
change value on 11th column based on 9th column using sed
how do i redirect warnings ?
assign single variable to an array (in place)
how define array on awk
calculate sum of size notated figures?
is there any write buffer  programming?
regular expression for finding numbers of this format num:num:num:num
bash: incrementing a variable using "let"
how to increment variable 'var'  if 'var=08'
using record separators in awk
deleting column selection in awk
read a file line by line - rightanglebrc  search for each line in another text document, if match, output to another text file
add prefix to every single hostname 
bash: getting a command's completion output programmatically (e.g., in a variable)
bash base 62 to decimal conversion
range  file-pattern and case-sensitivity
idioms for returning multiple values ing
exception handling ing?
exception handling ing?
exception handling ing?
how can i get unique values from an array  bash?
substitute backslash plus pipe in vi/linus
regular expression for finding numbers of this format num:num:num:num
sed replace (single-line) c comments with c++ comments
sed replace (single-line) c comments with c++ comments
sed replace (single-line) c comments with c++ comments
how can i extract a subset from a column/field using awk?
sed replace (single-line) c comments with c++ comments
merge lines of a txt file using shell script
android notifications through adb
android notifications through adb
substitute backslash plus pipe in vi/linus
how to pass all arguments passed to my bash script to a function of mine?
bash compare strings not working
how to add a character in front of multiple words 
shell script: replace matching text with output of program
unix command to convert multiple line data in a single line along with delimiter
unix command to convert multiple line data in a single line along with delimiter
sed statement to change/modify csv separators and delimiters
sed statement to change/modify csv separators and delimiters
sed statement to change/modify csv separators and delimiters
awk fpat variable: working
what does the curly-brace syntax mean ?
bash: string manipulation terminate on whitespace
remove an unknown part of a line using sed
shell script grep to grep a string
overlapping chunks in rsync algorithm
overlapping chunks in rsync algorithm
shell script: replace matching text with output of program
accurev hist -c "comment" not working
accurev hist -c "comment" not working
how to stop shell script from getting confused by ack pattern escapes
linux  global search and replace
using ack as a filter
linux  global search and replace
load the result of an egrep inside a editor (vim/emacs/gedit)
find files where 2 given words occur in
performing a sed -i on a list of files in stdin
using sed and grep to search and replace (skipping .svn or .git)
how to specify an ignore pattern with ack?
xargs not working
bash, how to check command output and proceed
replace script works if i type manually but not in script
find files where 2 given words occur in and also show lines where words appear
user input to bash alias?
acrobat reader - print pdf as image ( options)
changing the value of an argument and using options 
how to write a bash script like the ones used in init.d?
how to stop all progs ran in parallel from bash-script when it stopped by ctrl+c
how to stop all progs ran in parallel from bash-script when it stopped by ctrl+c
how to run apk from commandline in emulator
android notifications through adb
copy apk files in a bash script
take the list of attached devices
get only android device id and save it to an array 
android: how to know if any application is already installed in android device using adb?
how to open an android emulator and install an .apk at the same time from the same terminal?
how to monitor android adb logcat and do a grep?
apply logcat filter ^(?!.*(nativegetenabledtags)).*$ in console
how do i pass an absolute path to the adb command via git bash for windows?
how to write output of command "adb push file.txt /sdcard/" to text file?
how to write output of command "adb push file.txt /sdcard/" to text file?
how to redirect the vmstat's output to a file in android os?
check if directory exists on android sdcard with bash
whats wrong with setting this path variable?
how to exit apk from shell
how to exit apk from shell
adb start activity name doesn't work
how to start an android application from the ?
adb start activity name doesn't work
piping output from 1 command to other command in an adb shell 
what's android adb shell 'dumpsys' tool and it's benefits?
what's android adb shell 'dumpsys' tool and it's benefits?
what's android adb shell 'dumpsys' tool and it's benefits?
an issue with a variable in adb shell
android adb commands to get the device properties
android adb commands to get the device properties
bash conditional expression not working
getting android sdk version of a device from 
how to view installed apks on emulator through windows ?
adb shell "run-as" from a .bat file not finding unix commands
how do i clear notifications using adb shell
cmd run automatically - rightanglebrc  shell commands to view a sqlite database for android
chmod android file system from script
launch a script as root through adb
how to turn off wifi via adb?
how to turn off wifi via adb?
how to use linux pipe for userdefined shell scripts
calling a function in bourne shell
opening more than one file split vertically through emacs -nw
`m-x term' with emacs on ms windows: error spawning child process: invalid argument
how do i write a password using a bash script?
how to create an alias that can substitute arguments for c shell?
how to redirect the vmstat's output to a file in android os?
set awk delimiter to parse "airport -s" output
how do i find where a executable is present in macosx?
how can i use a bash script to define an alias from user input?
how can i use a bash script to define an alias from user input?
shell function issue - remove the single quote from shell statement
create an alias for "pipe grep"
global alias for last file in current directory
zsh expand alias to result of function as string
"*.foo" shell function
zsh auto_vim (like auto_cd)
repeat last command with "sudo"
alias: how can i send "alias" to background?
linux to define custom shell command?
how to create an alias that can substitute arguments for c shell?
bash alias expantion
set alias with quotes and double quotes in command
how to get name of alias that invoked bash script
ant: how do i disable all non-error messages?
how to display ascii character code
bash alias to rbenv shim
changing ksh dir when exiting bash mode
how to take the entire  text as an argument to a bash function?
git branch bash variable shortcut
what's the best practice for changing working directories inside scripts?
how can i call a script in .profile?
how to get quoted arguments in the correct way?
change terminal title according to the last 2 directories in the path
can i have a shell alias evaluate a history substitution command?
change cd default directory (bash)
is it possible to make some shell calls automatically when entering a directory?
bash: propagating exit code of command executed in alias
preserve colouring after piping grep to grep
alias wont work - embedding a quoted string in an alias definition
alias wont work - embedding a quoted string in an alias definition
get the `pwd` in an `alias`?
get the `pwd` in an `alias`?
get the `pwd` in an `alias`?
how to alias 'clear' to ctrl+l keystroke
linux bash - how to make a softlink for i/o redirect
can i create shortcuts for long console commands ?
clear the ubuntu bash screen for real
how can i programmatically access the bash command history in c?
start tmux with cmus opend through bash script
linux change directory from an executable bash file
why is this alias including a parameter working?
bash : add an option to an existing command
csv column counts via  alias
switching to an aliased directory
how to create a symlink to open a directory in terminal on mac osx?
awk parse error on ' leftanglebrc ' operator
shell alias with set -e to make command fail?
unexpected eof in .bashrc alias
how do i pass an empty string to my alias for emacsclient ?
can't seem to change default editor in osx lion terminal
how to force bash autocomplete to one command?
creating an alias for emacs in read-only mode on linux in my .tcshrc file
how to set an alias so that it will change directory and run a sh file
executing shell script from current directory without '"./filename"
add a single bash command
shell export variable not come into effect
shell export variable not come into effect
how can i make an alias pointing to a link in zsh-shell (on mac)
how can i make an alias pointing to a link in zsh-shell (on mac)
basic alias for quote literal
basic alias for quote literal
creating a .bashrc function to search through all files for a particular string
putting a find command as an alias
putting a find command as an alias
how can i check in my bashrc if an alias was already set
shell alias which whitespace cancelling
calling function from 
nesting quotes 
dos format and the 'alias' file... what was going on?
current working directory output in an alias
how to write an bash alias to list all name-matching env-vars
g++ default parameters
how do i change my gdb path ?
bash alias to python script -- is it possible?
git: a quick command to go to root of the working tree
create an alias with a variable in mac terminal
setting relative alias in zsh
setting relative alias in zsh
how to run cd with script (outside of subshell)
how to run cd with script (outside of subshell)
how do i find where a executable is present in macosx?
, how to write alias or function for "export grep_color='1;32'; grep --color"?
\curl ... | bash ... what's the slash for?
how do i expand commands within a bash alias?
understanding bashrc alias command
is there a gitx equivalent for mercurial that allows command-line execution?
number of lines returned by history
alternate way to trigger reverse-i-search without pressing ctrl+r 
intellij: how to open files in an existing intellij from the 
bash - cd your instance rather than sub process
shell script to kill the process listening on port 3000?
how to kill all background processes in zsh?
zsh alias failing for "sudo kill -hup `cat /usr/local/var/run/nginx.pid`"
how to run a specif .bashrc code only the first time konsole is opened
how to bookmark most using linux 
creating a shorter version of a bash command
how to create an alias correctly
how to create an alias correctly
how to create an alias correctly
how to color ls - l command's columns
force symbolic only links
multiple commands in an alias 
linux alias chain commands (can recursion be avoided?)
print out the alias'd command when using the alias
raspberrypi shutdown script
zsh not recognizing my aliases?
execute a command when another command is executed on linux
how to create bash alias with argument?
is it possible to access environment variables without the '$' ?
is there a gitx equivalent for mercurial that allows command-line execution?
tcsh globbing with alias
how to escape single quote while setting aliases
avoid using "source" to set an environment?
g++ default parameters
print terminal alias command as well as executing it
how can i escape bash commands in a bash alias
escaping * char in cshell alias
how to make an "alias" for a long path?
how do i make this python  an alias ?
choose the newest file and use getline to read it
how to detect using of wildcard (asterisk *) as parameter for shell script?
programmatically start su session, run command, and remain at root prompt
creating an alias for a python script
creating an alias for a python script
creating an alias for a python script
install a different version of python
aliases in gnome terminal 2.16.0 are not being set
git bash: launch application via alias without hanging bash (windows)
how can i launch chrome with flags from  more concisely?
open a file from cygwin
how do i alias a  command? (mac)
different versions of the same program installed. how do i give precedence to a specific version?
how to set the php path when directly run php in command prompt
why is script not being executed?
why has this bash alias to update all pip packages stopped working?
why has this bash alias to update all pip packages stopped working?
how do i stop a command inside an alias from running when .bashrc is sourced?
how do i stop a command inside an alias from running when .bashrc is sourced?
how to translate small bash code to csh / tcsh (setting gnome terminal title)
is there a convenient autocomplete  for previously entered commands like in matlab?
creating shell commands for ruby script
creating shell commands for ruby script
why doesn't "cd" work in a bash shell script?
how do i interactively pass arguments to curl from the shell?
using an alias to call a python script
how to run a program without specifying the full path?
how to fix zsh: correct 'deploy' to '_deploy'  leftsquarebrc nyae rightsquarebrc ?
generate random number in .bashrc alias
vim -- not recognizing aliases when in interactive mode?
echo to standard input or stdin
issue with sed , aliasing and quotes
prevent a command in a shellscript from being executed inside another shellscript
can i change a command name  x terminal?
what difference does the backslash make in the below syntax to remove a unix directory having contents?
using rot13 and tr command for having an encrypted email address
changing git user on the fly
passing directory name into ruby run statement
adding an alias for sublime text to zshrc
how do you open sourcetree from the ?
alias with parameters
export term before ssh'ing
launch sublime text 3 in terminal with zsh
creating bash alias that starts two processes?
creating bash alias that starts two processes?
why do non-escaped, double-quoted paths work for a test, but not for an alias?
what's the difference between ln -s and alias?
why do non-escaped, double-quoted paths work for a test, but not for an alias?
why do some commands behave differently when run using a bash alias?
how to get no context when using svn diff
is there a gitx equivalent for subversion that allows command-line execution?
how to pipe a tcl command with or zsh shell?
bash command aliasing for sshfs
alias if script matches variable, quotation issues
alias if script matches variable, quotation issues
masking user input & encoding
masking user input & encoding
bash: "time time cmd" is not working after update
bash_aliases and awk escaping of quotes
how to escape whitespace in a bash alias?
how to use perl one-liner as an alias
how to use perl one-liner as an alias
bash alias create file with current timestamp in filename
error converting a bash function to a csh alias
subversion update all working copies under common parent directory
oh my zsh multiple commands with one alias
bash alias to open vim at last cursor position mark
set enviroment variable that contains two paths interelated paths
compiled vim from source on mac osx and getting 'shell returned 127' error?
how do i open a file in vim from inside a conque shell
c shell how to put multiple commands in an alias?
bash open .html file not in browser but with $editor
very simple bash script not working
add string with a command for .bashrc
bash alias command with both single and double quotes
compile all source files into executables
use makefile to parallelize bash script
makefiles: how to detach folder name from long path
makefile with multiple targets
can't pause nano in terminal
how can i list the contents of zip file without decompressing it?
how can i stop vi from overlapping and hiding the last page of  output?
how to avoid emacs (or vi) remaining on your screen after closing when using gnu screen?
how to broadcast battery_changed intent with extras through adb shell?
how to start an android application from the ?
parse linux command output
parse linux command output
using amazon mapreduce/hadoop for image processing
permanent removal of all imes?
permanent removal of all imes?
how to generate apk file using a ?
install android old system images (abis) from the 
android/eclipse: where to write command-lines like "emulator -wipe-data"?
android - input text within app doesn't work
how to run android system app without root permisson?
suppress verbose xpath output
ansible playbook to run shell commands
ant fails unknown argument: -buildfile=build.xml
ant fails unknown argument: -buildfile=build.xml
how to set the ant property "output.root" ?
how to pass parameters for a ant script , which is invoked via shell script?
pass "git describe" output to java code
how to run multiple test classes with junit from ?
how to run ant script from a shell script?
how can i see the full command ant uses in the java task?
how to generate apk file using a ?
android build: add jar to endstate via command-line builds
bash: pass command substitution to external program (or function) without word splitting
allow apache to execute git pull
restart sphinx from php
find apache directory
how to get the value 1,0 from this string output of aplay -l?
how to get the value 1,0 from this string output of aplay -l?
hide output of aplay shell command
hide output of aplay shell command
list all the hosted website from  on iis
appcmd command not working
how to change .net framework v2.0 to v4.0 for isapi and cgi restrictions feature in iis7 using ?
converting a list to double quoted comma separated strings
capture log4j output with grep
capture log4j output with grep
is there a c library reference available from the ?
is there a c library reference available from the ?
is there a c library reference available from the ?
shell:install gawk on ubuntu 12.04
apt-get: how to retrieve the description of all packages that have a certain string in their name?
find os number of updates available
what does "download or create" mean in a tofrodos context?
ubuntu 11.10 + bash + python error + invalid python installation
run bash script without input
how to read email from  ?
custom  utility. how?
run ubuntu terminal from bin folder
linux script to do simple setup on new install?
use terminal to display image without losing focus
executing a desktop app  by  without showing its gui window
error while installing oh-my-zsh
what's the proper way to retry commands in an aws cfn template?
bash - how to detect whether apt-get requires a reboot
how to find non official installed packaged?
how do i send authentication details in a bash script?
shell command for finding all packages that provide a certain virtual package
choose the 32 or 64 bit version of an app from  (mac os x)
choose the 32 or 64 bit version of an app from  (mac os x)
error defining variable 
bash - self extracting script error
problems with making a simple unix shell
how to catch input from python  script
making shell in c
how to get value from variable 
why does my program crash if i don't give  arguments to it?
 parsing in argc/argv
ping iphone address, response is off
bash getting and parsing results
bash getting and parsing results
cut standard output c linux
cut standard output c linux
cut standard output c linux
cut standard output c linux
can awk replace fields based on separate specification file?
linux find files and copy to directory
how to fill an array with values in a for loop
detecting command not found  script
retrieving output from a command streaming information
error message by shell on running addr2line pragmatically on ubuntu
shell script not working at startup even it add in /etc/rc.local
run spell-check on multiple files and display any incorrect words 
run spell-check on multiple files and display any incorrect words 
trying to build and publish asp.net website from  using aspnet_compiler
clone a variable ?
django-admin.py is not working properly
django-admin.py is not working properly
strip color code from sed output
using asterisk to click2dial via 
bash - using the at command without a file
using 'at' command in a bash file
how to find the command on the scheduled `at` job?
issue with scheduling 
how to schedule cron job from shell script
how to start an application at a given time in dos ?
how can i use an at command in a shell script?
array output for option of command  script
 to recursively delete files but excluding a certain file
assign a shell variable in awk
how to use augtool without a lense?
automatically inserting a header in vim
vim: good way to setup makeprg=xcodebuild?
make a vim plugin that calls a bash script
vim undofile displays at terminal login
bash or vim alias/command to use a certain template when creating python files?
vim does not execute autocommands on startup, but .vimrc is read
tar a .tgz but autoconf doesn't configure properly
how do i create a configure script?
how to resolve com port issue through 
echo binary data from shell script to terminal
how to run an awk commands in windows?
unix: removing duplicate lines without sorting
how to select rows in which column two and three are not equal to each other and to 0 or 1?(with awk)
subset delimited file by subset of one column
problems reading a system file with awk
reading a variable in awk from the  after entering the command
case insensitive match in solaris awk regex match
swap two columns - awk, sed, python, perl
is it possible to display the progress of a sort ?
uniq element extraction
consolidating overlaping log files
evaluating command with awk
remove duplicate line using regex
list file names, not including two strings using grep
how do i delete the current line based on a match in both the previous and current lines in sed?
delete a line that contain an occurence in the first or second column
merge filea and fileb with difficult field separator using bash/awk
how to delete a line  (awk) with 2 conditions
sed or awk or perl + remove all not uniq lines except the first line (file name) + shell script
grep - list all lines not containing both pattern
grep trim txt file by certain line number
sed: how to remove every 10 lines in a file (thin or subsample the file)
gawk: change 5th element on every other line
finding greater number using awk
joining two consecutive lines awk sed
changing rows to specific order
remove lines containing space 
trying to understand a simple linux code
using invert match and then substitute
use awk to extract a row records not contain soecific word
search multiple pattern in file and delete line if pattern matches
bash - removing carriage return append next line, but not everytime
convert merge line batch script to shell
print portion of a file between two "headers"
sed + need to remove each line in file that begin with ###
csv rows splitting and aligning  script
bash: compound grep in
single column to multiple column adjustable rows and cols awk
single column to multiple column adjustable rows and cols awk
how to replace the lower case letters to upper case letter 'c' using awk?
awking multiple times in a shell script file
count occurrences after a string match with bash text utilities
how to delete the rows that start with "c" with awk?
how to number line in file with exception (bash or sed)
sed: replace a line containing a pattern
use awk to extract a row records not contain soecific word
nawk/awk: how to present an error message while there is no string match?
awk how to set record separator as multiple consecutive empty lines or lines only inculde space and/or tab characters?
sed replace empty line with character
grep (awk) a file from a to first empty line
how to do reach specific section of text file and then search
how to keep a file's format if you use the uniq command ()?
sort and remove duplicates based on column
how do you filter out all unique lines in a file?
how to merge two csv files not including duplicates
how to delete duplicated rows with several files?
bash script to remove duplicate entries
remove lines that have duplicate entry in the the first column
how to delete duplicated rows based in a column value?
filtering text file to get unique entries based on value in column 3
print unique lines, compare no more than n characters
find unique time from log file , linux grep
printing previous field in awk
remove lines when three columns are identical
output whole line once for each unique value of a column (bash)
need help in editing a awk code to print minimum within range
count of unique lines based on first field in file
how to remove duplicate occurrences in a file?
how to remove duplicate occurrences in a file?
awk pattern matching syntax c&&!--c
grep -f return only first match (of many)
value / pair update in awk
remove duplicate line using regex
awk $1 vs cut -f 1 - why am i getting different answers?
how to remove lines with duplicate pair of words?
removing the duplicates bash
delete row if the second column value is repeated
how to delete double lines 
how can i delete duplicate lines in a file ?
how to delete double lines 
need to replace duplicates in file except if the line matches a pattern
sed/awk + regex delete duplicate lines where first field matches (ip address)
how to save the lines of grep matches?
how to insert a character after a blank line
grep file when $1 with format "hh:mm:ss" is between a range
what's an effective way to filter access.log to return list of unique ip addresses and the number of successful requests (code 200) by each client?
using bash pipe instead of select statement
using bash pipe instead of select statement
grep -b emulation with ring buffer / awk
grouping command substitution without double quotes? "$()" without the ""
searching for a certain timeframe using awk does not work
awk matching positive and negative numbers
insert lines based on a pattern using awk
awk - how to improve the regular expression?
how to append to lines in a file that do not contain a specific pattern using shell script
insert lines based on a pattern using awk
searching for a certain timeframe using awk does not work
shell script: find maximum value in a sequence of integers without sorting
to remove blank lines in data set
how to replace lines that start with  rightanglebrc  with the 15 column of the same line by awk command?
searching string in a file and outputting the line number
how to format a column with awk and printf when values are either numeric or string
how to format a column with awk and printf when values are either numeric or string
how to format the output of ls?
append text to file without line breaking
how to format a column with awk and printf when values are either numeric or string
(awk) creating a username column using the characters from first name and last name columns
how to copy & paste text from sourcefile to new file(only the nums)?
extract lines between two patterns from a lfile
awk find and replace for exact match only
sort by field length with awk... not working
organize chinese character in text one word per line
sed matching multiple line pattern
add a specific word to end of line
list file names, not including two strings using grep
list file names, not including two strings using grep
list file names, not including two strings using grep
list file names, not including two strings using grep
list file names, not including two strings using grep
list file names, not including two strings using grep
search pattern containing forward slash using awk
for loop in awk to compare subsequent rows within file
using awk to search for lines that have a number of digits
awk for date range in seconds
remove all sequences containg phrase "random"
awk: length of column number
executing shell scripts for each ip found in grep  leftsquarebrc solved rightsquarebrc 
print log records within a time interval using sed
sed + match the first word in line and the second word that begin with abc
how to use `awk` so that i can alter only one or two fields in the line conditionally?
awk extract data block between text strings
bash, extract string between two patterns
use grep to extract first word after match
add two consecutive lines in sed
unix - find patterns in file, copy into another file
how to do the grep the following  or awk
awk extract data block between text strings
how to use awk for two columns and more than 2 conditions
summing up the values in last column using awk
grep only variable names  script
how to solve the point in regex?
sed remove line containing a string and nothing but; automation using for loop
delete lines from file
executing shell scripts for each ip found in grep  leftsquarebrc solved rightsquarebrc 
compute value from two consecutive rows, in case values in first column match
how do i get lines with a range of number?
unix, assign value to a variable in c or kornshell (ksh)
printing selected rows from a file using awk
converting xml into a pipe-delimited file using bash
of bash loops and if statements
extracting a pattern and a certain field from the line above it using awk and grep preferably
filtering multiline pcregrep match with sed
correctly use variable in awk script
grep two particular columns
understand a search pattern in awk?
fetching all those text that match a pattern using shell
maximum and minimum using awk
reorder lines with a specific pattern in a text file
remove specific lines from file
difference between lines - awk - linux script
strip out value from return using awk
in a shell (bash) how can i execute more than one command in a pipeline?
removing whitespaces from a string
if matched then print all using awk
using sed to copy data between two numerical patterns to a new file
using sed to copy data between two numerical patterns to a new file
awk nr lookup with variable gives extra output
awk nr lookup with variable gives extra output
awk : conditionally grab text in a file
selecting data from a big file
find text line1 in spreadsheet and get column 2
how can i search for a specific string after an ls command
test for pattern a and b and return text lines in-between and including pattern a & b
selective printing
find the first line having a variable value bigger than a specific number
awk: printing filename once when criteria are met several times in a file
awk: printing filename once when criteria are met several times in a file
extracting an integer from a line with the help of linux script?
how can i mix math with regex's in awk or sed?
awk returns lines with substring
grep versus awk: how do the search mechanisms differ
using awk to print lines between patterns after a pattern has been met
grep for multiple patterns with options for each patterns
looking special characters into a strings with awk
how to ignore lines that starts with a blank character?
c shell substring compare
how to i read a line, modify it slightly and write it back using awk/sed?
process lines of text with bash
use grep to remove words from dictionary whose roots are already present
linux command which outputs lines from a txt file which have numbers that are in a certain range
awk solution for comparing current line to next line and printing one of the lines based on a condition
why does awk not treat this array index as a number unless i use int()?
remove a line with special character with pattern
skip lines whose 2nd column has a string
subtracting two columns then deleting the line where the output equals 0 using awk/grep and vi
how to sort a text file's content on lowest value of a column for a group of rows
add column to middle of tab-delimited file (sed/awk/whatever)
meaning of this shell script line with awk
replace cell values in one file with another value from another file
how to get below output using awk or sed or using any other option
awk + or operation in awk syntax
bash append line to lastline if case matches
how to sort a text file's content on lowest value of a column for a group of rows
how to use awk to grab a row in a file by a certain column
print lines if $2 leftanglebrc 25 from text files with sed or awk
how to add alphabet in starting numbers of rows?
howto pass a string as parameter in awk with script
find the first line having a variable value bigger than a specific number
extract values from a text file with awk
awk: replace second column if not zero
awk: replace second column if not zero
awk or sed need to remove lines from output if a certain pattern is found
remove a line with special character with pattern
remove a line with special character with pattern
awk, a field doesn't match but it should match
add a new column of numbers to whitespace delimited data based on another column of numbers using bash utilities
sed/awk  script
using awk with
replace column by comparing with the other column
adding the first word from header to all the subsequent lines of file using awk
sum column based on flag
why does "1" in awk print the current line?
why does "1" in awk print the current line?
modify only one column of a big file and keep field seperator the same 
modify only one column of a big file and keep field seperator the same 
modify only one column of a big file and keep field seperator the same 
modify only one column of a big file and keep field seperator the same 
modify only one column of a big file and keep field seperator the same 
modify only one column of a big file and keep field seperator the same 
joining lines with a specific pattern in a text file
using sed to change /etc/fstab
awk: check if field value is in one of the given
awk to nearest match
awk to nearest match
filtering fields based on certain values
awk string inequality seemingly not working
assigning id to each line by column value in awk
filtering fields based on certain values
awk or sed replacing specific $3 with ajacent $2
cutting element  based on column value
using grep to split a line, then search for lines with a number greater than 3
copy one value to selected rows
awk partly string match (if column partly matches)
remove a line with a specific pattern in one field
linux-about sorting shell output
linux-about sorting shell output
awk - is there a way to match partially a numeric string?
awk - is there a way to match partially a numeric string?
efficient way to count the amount lines obeying some condition
delete specific rows based on specific word in column
conditional sort using awk or sort
basename or endswith in awk?
linux  help | extract specific parts from file
how escaping works when passing a string as  argument?
sed + count words on field 3
awk show x by not y
how escaping works when passing a string as  argument?
only print lines with specific column not *
bash delete if pattern1 and pattern2 found using sed
print only if value in field does not match previous line
print only if value in field does not match previous line
extract lines based on a column
parsing all csv files in a directory, line by line
awk extract part of string, compare to number, output original line intact
writing bash code for performance standards
writing bash code for performance standards
awk: print columns based on values of another column
find a string in a string using awk
selectively delete lines
filter column with awk and regexp
awk pattern matching on output not input
awk - how to "re-awk" the output?
bash: how do i choose rows from a file that have particular value in the column
is it possible to add the output of your command to a text file (not to overwrite the text file) ?
why doesn't my awk one-liner work when i call it from perl?
how to select all rows in a large text file that contain a specific text string
how to select all rows in a large text file that contain a specific text string
removing lines with repetitive values in last
how to count empty translations in .po with grep (or other lsb tool)?
insert tags at the beginning and end of the line that contains the keyword
sed bash script assistance
insert character in a file with bash
extract specific line from a file using awk
printing column from a string 
searching multi-word patterns from one file in another using awk
searching multi-word patterns from one file in another using awk
select lines based on value in a column
rearrange data
print the first line of uniq output
how to sort rows between time a (in format "hh:mm:ss")and time b using awk shell script (like below?)?
how to sort rows between time a (in format "hh:mm:ss")and time b using awk shell script (like below?)?
unexpected output from bash script when ran as cgi in apache and not when ran via . how to reproduce the apache-only bug?
grep find minimal and maximal number
linux commands to find two comparable rows
printing lines where certain columns do not match, with awk
awk same string in a specified column
remove lines from awk output
syntax error in expression ( error token is "i=2" )
extracting lines 1, 11, 21, etc. from a text file
awk command to print last 5 rows if matched
the simplest way to delete a section of text, n times
how to write finding output to same file using awk command
finding lines missing a bracket
keep all lines with  rightanglebrc 2 duplicates, based on one column
redirecting duplicate values to a new file
how can i specify a row in awk in for loop?
unable to separate semi-colon separated line awk
awk regex for a string of exact length that ends in ":"
awk, a field doesn't match but it should match
awk regex pattern matching
quantifiers in a regular expression used with awk behave unexpected
awk expression to get a particular pattern from the given input
awk regex pattern matching
awk regex can't match ip addresses when trying to find repeating digits
regex in awk and wingrep
awk output formatting and syntax
parsing string with spaces in awk
bash process data
a script to list all the exceptions and their number of occurrence
properties file search and replace
properties file search and replace
extract data from html table with bash script
sed regex issue
joining specific parts of text from two files in third?
match a string from file1 in file2 and replace the string in file1 with corresponding matched string in file2
getting the contents of a xml tag not inside a xml document
bash parse html
awk, extract string between different delimiters
find pattern in large text file quickly?
awk matches regex characters it shouldn't
split a text file based on delimiter using linux 
awk extract of a series of lines
sed: combine text between two pattern in same line
sed: combine text between two pattern in same line
awk field separator \ leftsquarebrc  \ rightsquarebrc 
sed: combine text between two pattern in same line
working with awk regex
get string between patterns, copy to the end of the line, and add another string to the copied string
how to extract number in a single quote from a line with awk or sed?
compare values in different files and keep non-matching lines
what is the optimal way to extract values between braces /awk?
remove linefeed from csv preserving rows
bash extract parts from string and create csv
creating a ":" delimited list  script using awk
creating a ":" delimited list  script using awk
awk | merge line on the basis of field matching
awk | merge consecutive 3 lines in a file on the basis of field matching
while read line, awk $line with multiple delimiters
sed replace blocks of text from 2 files
awk | update field number after comparing field from other file
awk | update field number after comparing field from other file
multiple field seperators each of which appears multiple times using awk
awk : field separator as double pipes or more
find a string and append it to next line using awk
bash script frequency analysis of unique letters and repeating letter pairs how should i build this script?
sed to replace text inside quotes
sed to replace text inside quotes
sed extract link from html page
sed - replace characters between two strings with another string
bash, extract one column of a csv file
how to compare two fields in a file and print the one that has data using awk?
shell scripting: echo vs save to variable
shell scripting: echo vs save to variable
multiple field seperators each of which appears multiple times using awk
grep data from a file bash shell script
grep data from a file bash shell script
grep data from a file bash shell script
grep data from a file bash shell script
i am asking for the user to input a title, but i want to compare the "input" with my text file
how to compare two columns in a single file 
parse ps etime output into seconds
print csv file 
use awk to fix csv file with commas in unenclosed fields
bash method to remove last 4 columns from csv file
unix cut: print same field twice
how to pass a variable to an awk print parameter
awk not working  script when use variable in comparison
awk: csv split works, but ignores the last field in the row
how to pass a variable to an awk print parameter
how to print columns of database using forloops in awk
compare two files and print available and notfound
take 1 line output from command, split it and put it in a new file line by line
using awk to print a column if only it meets criteria
how to delete all lines from a csv file containing an exact match of a search term?
using shell command in awk not working
extract email addresses from text file using regex with bash or 
awk expression to get a particular pattern from the given input
how to get requred field from file on linux?
column manipulation 
how to combine the data from two csv files ?
awk - send sum to global variable
split a variable length qouted string
shell script using awk
shell script using awk
script to extract characters from a file
print a part of line if operation of sed and grep is true
print a part of line if operation of sed and grep is true
print a part of line if operation of sed and grep is true
bash to print a nth word if an specific string exists
how to use cut with multiple character delimiter? unix
separate fields by comma using bash
unable to set many characters to the field separator in awk
separate fields by comma using bash
erasing with sed
how to append/update the data in particular column using shell scripting
add column with constant value in a file with bash
how to sort by hh:mm:ss.xx in ksh in aix 5.3?
how to get sub-string of one line using awk
c shell awk script needs revision or possibly grep solution (new to awk)
new to awk. struggling with negative number formating
how to compare variable dynamically inside awk ?
how to make this awk command more simple
extract string which is separated by dots followed by another string
bash script to log average ping times, every 20 seconds for a day
regexp on nmap services file
sorting a column based on the value of another
counting number a certain word per line in a file
awk shell variable with field separator
awk join two files and delete same columns
get date between tags using sed or awk
use awk to extract value from a line
awk:how to get a part of a field?
if two or more entry in last column, make independent row for each entry
using awk or sed to compare
using awk or sed to compare
extracting unique entries from log
want to execute awk from tcl
how to count "|" in a csv file through awk command?
how to count "|" in a csv file through awk command?
how can i find a specific value in a file and store into a variable in a bash script?
how can i find a specific value in a file and store into a variable in a bash script?
awk with tabulation as delimiter
find all lines in a file with number range
extract only ip addresses from a txt file an put them into a line
extract only ip addresses from a txt file an put them into a line
print everything up to match in pattern
how to extract the content between two brackets by using grep?
using awk / grep to extract #s from database, filter
unix shell script
awk/find/grep - if $3 exists in file
get string between two special characters
how to change grep and cut commands by only one awk/sed command in the following example?
how to use uniq if lines have the same strings in the middle?
how to extract nfs information from mount on linux and solaris?
search and print specific date in a log file
how to generate new line for each word found following a specific character in scripts and add first word from the line in front of new line
extract time and source ip address from pcap file
extract occurrences of character in file line by line
linux: extract and transform attributes from line
sed extract substring between two characters from a file and save to variable
modifying text within a file using sed or awk
how to add a space between first two columns? the format is extremely strict
how to add a space between first two columns? the format is extremely strict
how to add a space between first two columns? the format is extremely strict
how to match and keep the first number in a line using sed?
regex parsing a string to extract numbers 
how can i remove suffix of string in cut result (bash)?
split strings containing piping characters
split file based on a key and name the output with the key name
modify xml tags with specific pattern by regex tools
modify xml tags with specific pattern by regex tools
removing special character
using bash (bash awk, sed) read a file and extract word matching prefix between quotes
awk to skip csv rows with second field blank
awk to skip csv rows with second field blank
increment date with awk for few days and months
how to mark line in target file in case line matched
how to mark line in target file in case line matched
how to mark line in target file in case line matched
create a table from result of command
how to parse namp output xml file?
extract value via osx terminal from .html for "curl" submission within a single script
extract values from xml file, bash
split a file based on the string from the other file
grab all instances of pattern from single line of text, edit, pipe out to line-separated text file
how to use awk to separate string contains space 
using bash (bash awk, sed) read a file and extract word matching prefix between quotes
unix: get the latest entry from the file
get string inside quotation marks /awk
regular expression to capture a version number
bash - how to remove similar (not identical) lines? grep? sed? awk?
how to add to the number near the end of each line
linux delete spaces after a character in a line
linux delete spaces after a character in a line
unix - awk unexpected behaviour
how to replace a particular column in a csv with some string?
opening a tab delimitted file using linux commands
how to prevent bash for loop to transform string data
how to position part of the line after pattern (including it) after 80th character?
hazel bash script or applescript to sum numbers in txt file
how to escape my string when i calling a shell commend in perl?
shell script(aix) : finding a string after the matched pattern line by line in a file
sed remove '.' only in part of string
get word between quotes
return string between single quote with awk
awk - moving fields (corrected version)
adding some numbers ?
remove lines containing space 
merge multiple files: 1st column (same string), 2nd column (unique values per file)
need a quick way of removing partial duplicates from a log
shell: select unique row of flat file
get lines by a unique portion of the line, and display only the first occurrence of that unique portion
extract substring from rows with regex and remove rows with duplicate substring
ignore case when removing duplicates using awk
awk -f ends up deleting the field i'm trying to return
removing a line where the first column is not numeric
removing a line where the first column is not numeric
search in column 1 of the text file shell script
how to get a data range in a million rows dataset
delete every other row in csv file using awk or grep
remove lines containing space 
unix command to search blank word
how to remove lines of csv files under conditions using awk?
how do i use awk to display all lines but with a criteria in the 2nd field?
awk or sed need to remove lines from output if a certain pattern is found
search regex on a specific field using awk
bash/sed/awk - parsing csv from colum ==x until colum==x again
bash/sed/awk - parsing csv from colum ==x until colum==x again
awk a range of numbers from a specific column in a csv file
awk to filter csv files
how to use awk to print all lines whose third column value equals "0" instead of 0?
how to use awk to print all lines whose third column value equals "0" instead of 0?
copy csv field to next row (same column) if blank - bash (preferably)
awk, 4th column everything matching wildcard before the @
awk not working  script when use variable in comparison
how to get a field participating in 'n' records in a file using awk when some other field has same value in all those 'n' records?
awk: how to use ofs ignoring blank and commented out lines
can awk help detect sequence in a file?
awk: how to use ofs ignoring blank and commented out lines
awk: how to use ofs ignoring blank and commented out lines
awk reduce decimals for a single multiple input values
unix awk command
how to add duplicates lines to a file using unix
how do i get all statistics-related information from a file, using awk?
how to match a column name and find out the column position in awk?
creating multiple csv files from data within a csv file
newbie — renumbering line numbers in .txt file
how can i 'pad out' a csv file ?
replacing empty column value depending on other columns value 
max comma's on one line, using bash script
how can i determine the ordinal position of a string inside a comma-delimited string?
csv bash loop issue with variables
inserting a matched string from previous line to the current line using sed or awk
how to mark line in target file in case line matched
how to mark line in target file in case line matched
compare two files and make union
compare two different files with awk and copy values from one file to other
converting exponents to integers 
convert a specific column to lower case in a csv file
replace a character into awk
how to output awk result to file
how to insert  argument of shell script in awk?
csv grep but keep the header
how to replace full column with the last value?
parse a csv file that contains commans in the fields with awk
how to check whehter rows of a file within the rows of another file
printing out words from textfile -bash
awk -f ends up deleting the field i'm trying to return
insert a field after matching pattern
using awk to list out report according to type
how do i copy the first field of the first line into succeeding lines?
add column to end of csv file using 'awk'  script
what is the difference between sed and awk?
limit the 10th column of a csv to only 255 characters
using sed to swap columns x and x+1 inline in delimited file
one line using sed and bc together?
convert a specific column to lower case in a csv file
replacing single quotes in awk in a column/field
awk calculate sum of 2nd column and percentage wrt sum and print
awk search a line withing a file
count the number of times a value in a field appears in another field
how to find a duplicate value between two files and print
arrange rows of one file same as rows in second
awk: print string in file2 not matching with string file2
awk lookup 2 files, print match and sum of sencond field:
awk compare - gunzip files:
compare and print lines from second file
find lines matching a pattern, provided their value in a specified column occurs exactly twice in the input file
awk unix insert into file location directory
awk: modify a csv with sections containing headers
how to remove lines of csv files under conditions using awk?
sed doesn't exit, even though it is done
how can i print a specific field from a specific line in a delimited type file
how to replace full column with the last value?
awk parts of a column if the value is equal or lower than
split this csv/xls into separate files based on two columns?
awk subsetting on id's in $1 and close( )
how to filter rows in a .csv file where all the entries are 0 but without taking into consideration the first columns
unable to run awk command as a shell script
csv grep but keep the header
awk doesn't recognise more than one field when changing value of an element
deleting duplicate columns from csv file
awk csv split with headers windows
awk csv split with headers windows
awk csv split with headers windows
split this csv/xls into separate files based on two columns?
out of memory using awk
out of memory using awk
grep a csv file using as input another csv or txt file
compare 2 csv find a match and output it using linux shell
awk replace a column value when occurrences happen
how can i compare two text files which has multiple fields 
finding common columns position between files
string comparison (structured text) 
why does my awk command print an extra line?
how can i do a 'where' clause ?
how to delete all lines containing more than three characters in the second column of a csv file?
length of a specific field, and showing the record in much easier way
linux bash commands to remove duplicates from a csv file
group files and pipe to awk command
replace column if equal to a specific value
unique enties of a specific partial column of csv file
find a string and append it to next line using awk
check field length using awk
how to find rows which has a certain char less than a certain count?
is it possible to use two different field separators in awk and store values from both in variables?
split a table file according to modification in a specific column
quickest way to split a large file based on text within the file 
split a table file according to modification in a specific column
how can i swap two columns using sed?
bash: sort text file by last field value
unique enties of a specific partial column of csv file
awk csv file to sql file output
how to format string with numbers and decimals?
trim column to fixed length in file 
split csv according to field and create subdirectory then save :
awk divide sum of column by number of lines in file
modify last field of complete csv file
how can i insert a character at a certain position in a csv line
awk: extract specific columns from delimited file
invalid sum expression while trying to obtain sum of index
awk -log calculation on a column
list most prevalent values with their corresponding sum
splitting csvs into files named for one of the columns
how to sort the columns of a csv file by the ratio of two columns?
length of a specific field, and showing the record in much easier way
finding common rows in files based on one column
awk command which is not working as expected
sum column based on two matching fields using awk
uniq -u with specific column
scripting in awk
awk manipulates csv file
read from certain letter to end
how to remove an apostrophe ( ' ) from couple of columns of a .csv file?
awk sed filter values in all lines greater/smaller than
counting number a certain word per line in a file
sed (or awk) to sum values in a csv file
how to convert csv file ?
reverse text of third column
how can i trim white space from a variable in awk?
awk if with multiple condition throws error - any help appreciated
combine some data from multiple lines
reading a csv file
bash script write file out depending on contents
how to split a large csv file 
splitting large file into small multiple files based on the column concatenation
text file split based on regular expressions
shell script for awk does not give desired output
how to get second last field from a cut command
splitting csvs into files named for one of the columns
how to delete the words with the pattern in text file
concatenate multiple fields in sqlldr
how to use awk for a variable  script
sed (or awk) to sum values in a csv file
unix awk command
bash script get the first column of every line in a csv file
print out only the first column in a non-standard csv file
parsing file to a new file
how can i get awk to print without white space?
using awk to list out report according to type
unique enties of a specific partial column of csv file
using awk to list out report according to type
csv optional quote with gawk
combining two awk commands in single command
combining two awk commands in single command
redirect output to a file which is variably defined
awk to generate sequence numbers based on start and end range:
bash script write file out depending on contents
chunk a large file based on regex (linux)
extract r summary using sed
how to assign awk output to netcat with delay after every element?
sum values of two same format files 
bash delete line condition
bash delete line condition
obtain substring using awk
multiple field separator in awk (field separator being together )
multiple field separator in awk (field separator being together )
replacing a specific pattern of characters with a particular character  script
replacing a specific pattern of characters with a particular character  script
unix delete line containing more than one dash
unix delete line containing more than one dash
extracting version number from a filename
how to delete records from huge text file based on timestamp?
awk: to find out of order data in a single file
grep logfile for a specific timeframe
how to match patterns in a larger pattern using regular expression?
find . and replace with . & newline & ; in osx (for total newbie)
find . and replace with . & newline & ; in osx (for total newbie)
how can i bump a version number using bash
how can i bump a version number using bash
how can i bump a version number using bash
how to use awk insert "." to string in the first column?
awk: to find out of order data in a single file
awk: to find out of order data in a single file
need to replace line from one file based on another file  bash shell
awk: to find out of order data in a single file
how can i bump a version number using bash
unix- how to cut specific characters in the particular sentence
get linux kernel version like this "310" ?
bash script write file out depending on contents
doing multi-staged text manipulation on the ?
using sed to fill blanks with 0's (zero's)
using sed to fill blanks with 0's (zero's)
bash "reverse" a string
get unique array values using mask
awk search value and get column
bash calculate age of person and read to csv file?
grep a list of files from a file and print specific part of the line with condition
grep a list of files from a file and print specific part of the line with condition
syntax error with awk print
sed replace domain in url
trim urls after third level
command-line with variable, doesn't work
extract grep match with sed
print matched pattern with awk
perl/awk/sed one liner for removing directory name from a text file containing list of paths
get the file name from the path
script to copy user according to uid
awk, getline - remove the last field
use awk to find first occurrence only of string after a delimiter
adding numbers without grep -c option
linux shell script help need to parse out data from log file between two words
script to output a string that contains a different matching string from a flat file
script to output a string that contains a different matching string from a flat file
filtering /etc/passwd 
printing lines from a file where a specific field does not start with something
printing lines from a file where a specific field does not start with something
count specific numbers from a column from an input file linux
count specific numbers from a column from an input file linux
want all of the line with one single command - ifs
regular expression grep fetch data between salary?
finding csh logins and real user names using awk command
bash check for repeated values in csv file
how to format the output of a cat expression
in a bash script, loop through lines in a file and modify them?
how to get the last login time for all users in one line for different shells
bash: using sed to replace end of line between substring
how to find and replace the text 
shell variable usage in awk
can anyone tell me what :x: is used for?
how to extract the age of a person from the given date in the text file file using awk and comparing it
how to extract the age of a person from the given date in the text file file using awk and comparing it
get values from json file
convert alphabets to numbers and remove numbers before a colon
bash script to sum numerical output
convert pcregrep command in awk or sed
get data from a text file
parsing text file using array and sed and awk 
messy bash variable
messy bash variable
i want to replace a specific line  file with sed
how to sum numbers 
extracting first line from file using awk command
awk catch text going into the next line
awk swapping first two fields gives weird bug
shell scripting errors
merge two unsorted text files based on the first column of the first one and preserving the order
awk fetching specific line and specific field
extract different lines from files using bash
match rows based on first field and combine second field
cut & to fields 1 & 2 from file_a and use them as the pattern for a line in file_b and echo results
sorting hash ​​values by length of lines ​​in a text files
awk fetching specific line and specific field
possible for awk to only output if 4 characters long?
padding leading zeros in a column using awk
bash read file line by line and use awk
how to extract a record in a text on string match in a file using windows bash
how to get the last login time for all users in one line for different shells
spliting a file into multiple files based on common line prefix
spliting a file into multiple files based on common line prefix
remove $path entry based on regex
nested awk command
filtering /etc/passwd 
how to trim specific text with grep
bash, extract string before a colon
how can i switch around the content of a line of text
how to show certain column of a record using sed
how to show certain column of a record using sed
how can i switch around the content of a line of text
how can i switch around the content of a line of text
sed 
reformatting report file using linux shell commands combining multiple lines output into one
print line numbers from grep seperated with a comma
how can i get awk input from a file and add my own text to the data?
totalling a column based on another column
grep only one of partial duplicates
linux: merging rows by the columns having same values
help with awk to truncate and pad
increment values in column within file with bash, sed and awk
increment values in column within file with bash, sed and awk
how can i get certain columns and certain rows from file with egrep and awk
how to combine cut command with arithmetic comparison
replace in a csv file value of a column
how to provide values to awk from external source?
how to provide values to awk from external source?
simple linux script help
delete a field by position from a long line
fgrep: sorting the results to files
fgrep: sorting the results to files
shell script - smart replace in file with lookup in second file
awk compare 2 files, 2 fields different order in the file, print or merge match and non match lines
awk compare 2 files, print match and difference
how to replace content of specified column in a huge file using unix command
how to take a single record in a file and display it vertically with the count of field before the actual field is displayed
edit text format with shell script
sed or awk regex, stop matching after semi-colon
awk sed - compare text withing a file, search for a string, look for repeated instances on the same file, add some wording at eol
sed or awk - need to grab a substring and append it to the end of the line
merge two properties file using shell scripts
shell command to retrieve specific value using pattern
usage of $1 and $2 in awk
shell command to retrieve specific value using pattern
how do i print word after regex but not a similar word?
awk command to find in files looking different
awk + match string after “=” separator
awk + match string after “=” separator
awk extract part of string, compare to number, output original line intact
replace dots in the property name but not in the property value
how to change the value for an entry in a properties file using shell script
how to use -v awk option for filtering out lines from a file
find a key in a file and output the corresponding value
bash string explode
how to get a value while discarding the unneeded parts?
how to get a value while discarding the unneeded parts?
how to grep for specific pattern in a file
regex to match a particular string in a file
how to change the value for an entry in a properties file using shell script
output json from bash script
finding the delta in properties between two files
awk: search string in diffrent file then append the result in the output
awk: get the value of the key if key founds in the file
using awk to parse through two files ignoring values
fastest way to compare differences in the keys of two configuration files (associative arrays)
fastest way to compare differences in the keys of two configuration files (associative arrays)
awk: search string in diffrent file then append the result in the output
awk paste comparison printing
sed substitute dash with underscore until character is reached
sed repeat string on every line
fastest way to compare differences in the keys of two configuration files (associative arrays)
sed : sustitute char "a" in a portion of a string and keep it in other portions
parse all text in a list before equals sign
grouping multiple values for same key from a text file to form single key-value pair
removing commas from numbers in csv file
removing commas from numbers in csv file
removing commas from numbers in csv file
removing commas from numbers in csv file
how to calculate this difference 
how to calculate this difference 
how to restrict a find and replace to only one column within a csv?
grep all those lines which have number "2" after 5th occurrence of "@"
how to use awk to search for a complete match of text within one column of a csv file and to only output the first matching line?
how to use awk to search for a complete match of text within one column of a csv file and to only output the first matching line?
wrap text in file on ubuntu
(sed/awk) how to convert a field-delimited (like a csv) file into a txt with fixed-sized tab-delimited columns?
awk - combine lines variables & print as columns
bash script commands to extract lines in custom log file
shell script: finding out a string in each line of a log and send email
how to filter lines by counting occurences of a char in awk or bash?
how to filter lines by counting occurences of a char in awk or bash?
find and replace using linux
how to find two values in file and use theese as variables?
extract the last occurence of a string that changes dynamically
using sed to remove words with common prefix
using variable in awk output
awk or sed csv file manipulation
pick unique lowest row 
bash remove trailing characters until dash alphanumeric
selecting surrounding lines around the missing sequence numbers
awk help for getting fields
replacing parts of the string
awk script to match a pattern and then remove entire line after delimiter
extract substring from end of line
get the newest file based on timestamp
awk--print from end of line till string is found
extract different lines from files using bash
reverse the line order of line pairs
match lines where a specified column range does not contain the dot character
removing unique and reverse pairs using awk or perl
awk one liner select only rows based on value of a column
regexp error when filtering command output
most effective way to retrieve, edit, and then store data from many files 
removing lines with certain fields 
awk or perl solution to delete lines with incomplete data
replace values from other columns if value of one column is null using awk/sed
edit header file with awk
edit header file with awk
edit header file with awk
comparing multiple files and columns using awk
inserting values from table into different table with python or awk
rearrange columns using awk or cut command
add new column with data split from existing column using awk
use awk to process a csv (tab delimited) line by line
join lines with the same value in the first column
filtering data in a text file 
bash/shell - paths with spaces messing things up
how do i check if a field is empty or null in a text file using awk and bash
outputting a csv file from shell
use awk to extract row records contain specific word
use awk to extract row records contain specific word
compare fields with exactly the same name
delete lines or rows in a tab-delimited file, by number of cells in that lines or rows
awk - split file by value in specific column
awk - split file by value in specific column
spliting file by columns
spliting file by columns
batch file that compares id's of lines in two files and writes it to another file| using awk
how to get search ids from the file (awk)
absolute value in awk doesn't work?
use awk to split one file into many files
how to get below output using awk or sed
awk: print $i returns nothing
match lines where a specified column range does not contain the dot character
shell script - print selected columns
how to use awk to merge two columns from each of 10 files
extract multiple fields that contain specific words
print specific columns using awk
use awk to extract row records contain specific word
linux command to remove a column, add id column and add another extra column unix/linux awk
how to go to the certain column or part of the line using "sed" command?
retrieving numbers from an alphanumeric text file using a bash script
retrieving numbers from an alphanumeric text file using a bash script
extract string from output command
remove dollar signs and commas from a string using sed
how can i extract a substring from the results of a cut command ?
how to get a unique word from file appearing in start of every line using shell script
extracting names from a jumbled up file
how i can remove double lines in whole file, omiting first n characters in each line?
unable to match regex in string using awk
how to filter rows where there is a trailing whitespace in a certain field?
how to grep content of file and create another file with grepped content?
how to grep content of file and create another file with grepped content?
awk - print only first line of duplicates and the line below it
awk: print three lines from a group of lines
optimization of find and replace script
awk count number of fields and add accordingly
exclude characters using awk
extracting lines from a file by comparing with numeric values
unix - awk unexpected behaviour
how do i print a field from a pipe-separated file?
awk code to select multiple patterns
replace null/blank columns with last known column (sed / awk / script)
using awk to get nth field from a particular line
how do i find lines in a file without exactly 35 occurrences of a character?
bash script get item from array
awk : comparing difference of files with different delimiter
grep "output of cat command - every line" in a different file
unix - how to merge two files using awk?
awk : comparing difference of files with different delimiter
optimizing this script to match lines of one txt file with another
how to get a pattern from a file and search in another file 
pattern - leave 1st instance of 1st column and replace others
replace lines that matches two patterns
how to merge the right side data when left side is common using awk
how to combine left side fields of file on the basis of right hand side data using awk.
how to split a text file on a delimiter into multiple files ?
take unique value to consider only second column 
split ordered file 
how to split a text file on a delimiter into multiple files ?
perl script to configure grep output
awk to print field $2 first, then field $1
bash: grab part of string from a  output
unix - count of columns in file
count number of column in a pipe delimited file
multiple field separators in awk
finding a string between two strings in a file
how to convert a database backup to csv or xls file
replace field value with sequence number
grep variable pattern match
if condition giving error  when checking two strings
sytax error with awk when periods in field separator
how to delete line after specific pattern and extract something
finding users in a xml-file and return in a variable
get last field using awk substr
how to print tail of path filename using awk
how to count spaces between coloums
sed androidmanifest for version
awk double split, trying to keep it on the same line
awk - print next record following matched record
printing lines from a file where a specific field is matched
awk ignore case
awk doesn't print separator
not able to get any output from awk command 
missing field and extra space after using for loop in awk
delete lines containing words from a list of words
read in a file and use awk to edit the output
read in a file and use awk to edit the output
awk automatically rounding off the output
separate strings to variables
what linux commands can parse a file with two delimiters per line?
split line into multiple via splitting specific field
split line into multiple via splitting specific field
gnuwin grep only value
gnuwin grep only value
find common line in two files and replace the next line of first file with the next line of other file
gsub replace one quote with nothing
bash sed a quoted string from file but only at the nth line
find common line in two files and replace the next line of first file with the next line of other file
find and replace using linux
find and replace using linux
 method to remove single line paragraphs from text file
string match using awk
search for regular expression with the symbol '
making a dictionary ... sort of
awk how to remove duplicates in fields only if previous fields are the same
awk how to remove duplicates in fields only if previous fields are the same
join two tables with awk, one from stdin, other from file
delete a line that contain an occurence in the first or second column
need to parse between second underscore and first hyphen of the text using sed
bash choosing latest version of a file from a list
sed-style replace letters with random letters, numbers with random numbers
awk select input files from list
escape sql parameters  pipeline
how to make awk gsub return a tab-separated line?
join 2 files based on fields in a columns
how to make awk gsub return a tab-separated line?
escape sql parameters  pipeline
redirect awk result to text file
how to match {{param}} in sed?
how to replace a special character from a column of file
update last field with value from line count (awk?)
how to escape a "." in awk?
output the record by comparing string in other file using awk script
counting no. of delimiter in a row in a file 
awk script to delete single record, not just group of records
matching records in awk
replacing a string pattern with another sequence 
awk or sed to create new file?
awk or sed to create new file?
awk substitute command issue
transposing two fields in awk
how to search pattern in a file by linux cli?
why are my awk results different from the example?
split strings containing piping characters
split strings containing piping characters
get the user input in awk
recursive search of multiple occurrences of multiple strings
run awk file from shell script without specifying awk's exact location
unix join produces inconsistent results on windows 7
change fs in awk for multiple files
replace multiple lines from a file with mutiple lines from another
fill in gaps with consecutive numbers and also copy preceed values
add missing servername to httpd.conf file using sed
using grep and awk together
matching xml comments with awk
awk reverse both lines and words
fastq to fasta format with sed/awk command
convert co-ordinate d-m-s to decimal degrees using awk
convert co-ordinate d-m-s to decimal degrees using awk
convert co-ordinate d-m-s to decimal degrees using awk
awk for saving read patterns in diferent fields
extract pattern from sql script
how to match a list of strings in two different files using a loop structure?
awk how to parse irregular file
extracting multiple instances of a regex pattern from file using kornshell
awk number of rows based on a certain row value
search 2 files and output the common and print an extra line unix scripting
combining sed from awk
need help to format output 
unable to make a factorial function in awk
rearrange a list 
search in one file given patterns from another one
command to find a function in a file and print its contents
linux awk columns comparison
how to extract values from a "table-like" text file with awk
use sed to match regex on infinite lines and dump matched result in another file
how to search for a pattern inside a file and delete the lines  on the ?
awk on two keywords within foreach loop
using awk sed to parse update puppet file
convert a file into csv with newline as the delimiter
transpose column to row into formatted output:
awk--editing field values in two files based on another file's content
merge 2 types of lines in a file on the basis of session id
bash script commands executed twice
awk - compare two files, match a field, merge both files
file merge on the basis of multiple column match
awk beginner question about putting some commands in a program file like abc.awk
one awk script bug i can't fix
awk | split the column and map with substring
i have an input file that looks like this
plotting with data which occurs periodically
merging content of 2 files based on some common field
read from nth occurence of string till a specific string
how to use sed or awk regex to parse this data 
splitting data 
sort log file using join
plotting with data which occurs periodically
organising inconsistent values
awk sed - compare text withing a file, search for a string, look for repeated instances on the same file, add some wording at eol
ksh calculate percentage of a colum where values  leftanglebrc  2
how to split string from array with repeating fileds?
traverse array sent from bash, in external awk script
using awk to process a file where each record has different fixed-width fields
get outer range of number sequence
awk - how to combine the two commands?
passing a 2d array name as an argument to function in awk
awk : parsing output of multiple commands
comparing lines with awk vs while read line
bash script to select a single python function from a file
extract rows and substrings from one file conditional on information of another file
bash: how to keep lines in a file that have fields that match lines in another file?
can awk do this? fixed with fields, horizontal and vertical records mixed
deleting lines with sed or awk
deleting lines with sed or awk
unix - distinct count, count and sum of values for all columns in file
how to analyze time tracking reports with awk?
grep using variable and regex
awk/sedmanipulate text file, create a csv file using a feeding file
checking the nth field on the n'th line within a range and other awk questions
parse text file using awk
formatting output  or awk
calculating sum of gradients with awk
filtering multiline pcregrep match with sed
how to delete all columns containing a specific headline using awk
remove linefeed from csv preserving rows
how to extract the age of a person from the given date in the text file file using awk and comparing it
select odd columns, then put fields of consecutive rows together
awk - change the date of the second
awk - compare every line to find a duplicate field, and add some wording to the end of line
match a string from file1 in file2 and replace the string in file1 with corresponding matched string in file2
how to multiply two tables 
how to implement this in awk or shell?
how could i remove a row which three components of a row in one file is similar to another file?
combining certain columns of several tab-delimited files based on first column
awk script to print records from every two files in a line
how to use awk to get maximum and average of scores of all column a pairs with column b?
windows script: text manipulation for text strings
awk | update field number after comparing field from other file
awk | update field number after comparing field from other file
extract data from text files
awk: print string in file2 not matching with string file2
search pattern from a file into another file
find a number of a file in a range of numbers of another file
awk: test if the value in a column is less or more than others and make union
scripting: how to put together lines from files based on matching column?
bash: how to keep lines in a file that have fields that match lines in another file?
calculate distance between two chains in pdb file
getting the number of unique values
reading from file -- awk
parsing using awk
add numbers in special record
how substract millisecond with awk - script
search for matching lines and combind the output on a single line
awk : if  rightanglebrc =4 lines in a row begin with + or - don't print record
gawk - extracting text and putting it on the same line
csv parsing from large logfile
excel formula / awk equivalent
shell script to parse csv to an xml query?
(sed/awk) extract values from text to csv file - even/odd lines pattern
removing extra commas from comma delimited file
print specific field from first line in file using awk
can awk replace fields based on separate specification file?
parse dig output export csv
awk-- for each key in column one search all other columns and find minimum entry
compare the value from file in awk
awk - compare two files, match a field, merge both files
awk - compare two files, match a field, merge both files
calling gnuplot from gawk and bash scripts, plots only first plot
subtract the values of two columns using awk or bash
subtracting two adjacent values in a column
how does awk distinguish between arguments and input file?
linux split a column into two different columns in a same csv file
awk csv split with headers windows
replace fileds with awk by using a different file as translation list
using sed / awk to process file with stanza format
transpose specific column using a bash script
use sed (or awk, perl etc) to identify first occurrence of a markdown title
awk - how to do a "include" file. (similar to the one available in gawk)
using sed to change  leftanglebrc cr rightanglebrc  leftanglebrc lf rightanglebrc  to a symbol
passing positional arguments (specifying columns) to awk interpreter
bash: sed -e not allowing my variable
bash: how can i replace what follows the equals sign consistently while skipping specific instances of key=value?
sed : insert lines after specific pattern with newline
find entries in log file within  leftsquarebrc timespan rightsquarebrc  (eg. the last hour)
find entries in log file within  leftsquarebrc timespan rightsquarebrc  (eg. the last hour)
find entries in log file within  leftsquarebrc timespan rightsquarebrc  (eg. the last hour)
bash script to find the frequency of every letter in a file
bash script to find the frequency of every letter in a file
bash script to find the frequency of every letter in a file
setting default numeric format in awk
bash script to add current date in each record as first column
rearrangement rows to columns on linux
how can i output null-terminated strings in awk?
bash turning multi-line string into single comma-separated
linux red-hat5.4 + awk file manipulation
svn log retrieve between the lines where find specific word
unix command to convert multiple line data in a single line along with delimiter
sed file separation with delimiters
sed file separation with delimiters
unix command to convert multiple line data in a single line along with delimiter
using double quotes as record separator in awk
how to add some data from bash variables to the beginning of all lines in a csv file?
perl script to configure grep output
adding a single date to the first column of a file
only execute awk action for first occurrence of pattern?
setting default numeric format in awk
looping one variable and printing from other
moving average using awk
put every n rows of input into a new column
awk compare value with a input
for loop and value changing using awk
awk replacing text but not for the last line
getting an extra number when replacing a number following a string using sed 
getting an extra number when replacing a number following a string using sed 
getting an extra number when replacing a number following a string using sed 
os.system complains about round brackets
find the first or third column
awk column minus a constant
how to find rows containing integers given in a file?
subtract columns from different files with awk
subtract columns from different files with awk
convert regex capturing group from uppercase underscore to camel case
convert hex string to decimal char by char
using sed how to remove last character only in the first line
making horizontal string vertical shell or awk
split a large string into substrings
extracting url with domain name
convert hex string to decimal char by char
analyzing time tracking data 
ruby script to check if a string is within a file?
fields contain field separator as string: how to apply awk correctly in this case?
using sed to change  leftanglebrc cr rightanglebrc  leftanglebrc lf rightanglebrc  to a symbol
how to use awk to enclose fields with commas in quotation marks?
add a column to any position in a file   leftsquarebrc using awk or sed rightsquarebrc 
how to grep a line and update a particular column value
how to grep a line and update a particular column value
how to print out a specific field in awk?
how to print out a specific field in awk?
reading a variable in awk from the  after entering the command
awk: redirecting script output from script to another file with dynamic name
sed - print all lines before the nth occurrence of a string
sed - print all lines before the nth occurrence of a string
sed - print all lines before the nth occurrence of a string
shell script to process a file and do math on it
awk syntax — what is ofs and why the 1 at the end?
print all fields with awk separated by ofs
grep information and save as a file readable to excel?
remove space between 2 columns and insert commas - bash
create csv out of a file that has three columns with bash
bash replace white space and end of string with another string
awk syntax — what is ofs and why the 1 at the end?
sed does not recognize -r flag on aix
unix skipping first line if empty
add a new column to the file based on another file
add new column based on the values in an existing column
giving space in the 5th column with awk
fancy awk output without using printf
swap two columns with awk
split a specific part of data into single line in a file 
joining lines conditionally in awk
awk - insert a new row after the regular expression?
how to print to file  and display it as "cat" would show
printing multiple matches in 1 line with sed
replace newline with string in sed on mac
choosing some specific fields from a record with awk
looking for a one-liner to remove duplicate multiline paragraphs from a file
decode base64 from shell
reverse newline tokenization in one-token per line files? - unix
converting a list to double quoted comma separated strings
add a period at end of paragraph
looking for a one-liner to remove duplicate multiline paragraphs from a file
how change only one parameter in file
copy lines based on matching pattern 
shell script to search paragraphs for a given pattern
add a period at end of paragraph
how to get text between two patterns in awk?
a real reverse in regular expression
how to get text between two patterns in awk?
trying to extract sections from nmap output
trying to extract sections from nmap output
use awk to output section of file forward and back from target regex
parse html snippet with awk
using a variable in replacing instead of a string in awk
get a specific sequence from a fasta file with regex
concatenating multiple files
changing the arrangement of a file
reverse newline tokenization in one-token per line files? - unix
use blank line as file separator in awk
looking for a one-liner to remove duplicate multiline paragraphs from a file
how to extract set of lines using separator from file 
how to split this text file by shell?
split paragraphs of text file into multiple files based on empty line between each
sed script to remove everything in brackets over multiple lines
unix awk command not listing multiple matched pattern
how to remove duplicate occurrences in a file?
sed script to remove everything in brackets over multiple lines
sed: match a string that contains a newline
match pathname within double-zero-byte-separator input file
bash replace part of text separated with marker that includes a keyword
combine all words into one line separated by semicolon (awk|sed)
multiline pattern delete with single line command
read line by line between a pattern, then print in de-limited format
how can i replace the newlines with colon within the range of lines in sed
using sed to get an env var from /proc/*/environ weirdness with \x00
create a csv file with specific format from a string obtained after ws invocation
create a csv file with specific format from a string obtained after ws invocation
sed replace text matching complicated regex pattern
how to convert a database backup to csv or xls file
awk how to set record separator as multiple consecutive empty lines or lines only inculde space and/or tab characters?
awk how to set record separator as multiple consecutive empty lines or lines only inculde space and/or tab characters?
script to grab output lines after specific pattern
script to grab output lines after specific pattern
tr '\n\t+' command not working  bash?
awk print is adding a control-m character at end of line
unix skipping first line if empty
using environment variable (get its value from awk command) as a condition in while
how to find the column number in a text file using unix commands
 script, is it possible to echo something into the beginning of file?
awk explanation example
bash: how can i replace what follows the equals sign consistently while skipping specific instances of key=value?
bash: how can i replace what follows the equals sign consistently while skipping specific instances of key=value?
how to pass arguments to awk file from bash file
how to get the character location of a pattern within a string?
how to get the character location of a pattern within a string?
how to get the character location of a pattern within a string?
modify a certain field of a certain line in text file 
parsing xml - subtracting values from tags
parsing xml - subtracting values from tags
best way to parse this particular string using awk / sed?
awk: error with variable
bash - formatting values
how to insert  argument of shell script in awk?
validations using awk
scripts: copy only the part between two specified lines
scripts: copy only the part between two specified lines
how to swap two fixed column values for each occurrence in vi shell?
in a column of numbers, find the closest value to some target value
extract nth line from lines having specific word using sed or awk?
extract nth line from lines having specific word using sed or awk?
pass awk calculation results to variables
passing bash input variables to awk
parse all column elements from a linux bash command output
obtain patterns from a file, compare to a column of another file, print matching lines, using awk
obtain patterns from a file, compare to a column of another file, print matching lines, using awk
how to provide values to awk from external source?
parse all column elements from a linux bash command output
parse all column elements from a linux bash command output
awk - apply a function to one column only, with a variable location
bash command to print column at specific range of line numbers
get n last records and change particular columns on them
using shell variable in awk
how to check on ftp if there files on the list older than 7 days
extract last 10 minutes from logfile
shell script to extract logs for last 24 hrs
regexp error when filtering command output
using awk or send to find a string and insert another complex string , before it
how to derive current date and time and append at the end of each line that contain 'hello'
add variable to awk command
using awk to do exact match in a file
one-liners script to (1) delete a line and the following one, (2) change a value in the file
awk substitute shell variables
replacing first column csv with variable
how to paste n times the same collumn?
grep and sed to capture parameter in file
how can i replace certain characters in a line, based on existence of data...?
how can i get the soa serial number from a file with sed?
how to search for lines in a file between two timestamps using bash
inserting variable after pattern using sed
sed sanitize muti-line substitution
how to extract a string, number, or word from a line or database and save it to a variable? (script )
passing input to sed, and sed info to a string
passing input to sed, and sed info to a string
bash: printing string value results not found
how to replace string with bash script and write back the result
how to insert shell variable inside awk command
awk: are these statements required?
search for variable in multiple files within the same script
search for variable in multiple files within the same script
sed - replacing a string with a variable full of weird characters
pass bash variable to awk in order to extract characters at certain positions
shell insert line after last empty line
filtering data in a text file 
altering multiple text files using grep awk sed perl or something else
what is the easiest way to join 12 columns?
search variable and corresponding value 
passing variable to nr in awk command not working
print output to 2 seperate column 
awk, declare array embracing fnr and field, output
awk throwing error "wk: cmd. line:1: begin blocks must have an action part"
grep redirect non-matching
get first n occurances of uniq lines, not only one
using awk with
using variables with commands 
replace 5th and 6th "word" in line of text file with bash variable
awk script not listing specific column
how to print the nth line from the end of a file ?
awk - return nth word in a column starting with pattern
using awk to extract only consecutive lines that have distinct characters in a column and have another column identical
find and replace nth instance of text string using python or bash
obtain averages of field 2 after grouping by field 1 with awk
make each line 500 of file characters long
make each line 500 of file characters long
using awk within loop to replace field
search a string in a file, then print the lines that start with that string
how to get a parameter from a complex xml text 
why does awk function only return last line from file?
how to delete last n rows in a file by using bash file?
print comma except last line in awk
grep ignore multiple lines
awk scripting for simulation
sed how to delete first 17 lines and last 8 lines in a file
read selected line from text file using shell
while read line, awk $line
using awk to pull specific lines from a file
sed substitute from variable containing special characters
using shell script to copy script from one file to another
split file by number of lines and pattern in awk/perl
awk: using escape characters in for statement
awk: using escape characters in for statement
bash: sed -e not allowing my variable
bash, extract string from text file with space delimiter
awk - is there a way to match partially a numeric string?
copy lines based on matching pattern 
awk script for search in a fasta file
how awk takes the result of a unix command as a parameter?
passing a bash array element to an awk regex expression
awk conditional statement
how should i do if the pattern in awk cmd is a bash variable and contains special character?
how should i do if the pattern in awk cmd is a bash variable and contains special character?
how should i do if the pattern in awk cmd is a bash variable and contains special character?
awk to print nth line from a file
awk to print nth line from a file
how to replace "nodejs" for a variable into "search pattern" awk
split file in blocks with counter
passing a variable into awk within a shell script
compare 2 files, print lines of second file in the order of first file
how can i display the single quote inside awk
awk adding on zeroes
how to pass filename through variable to be read it by awk
how to read line that is 1000 or more lines above/under the current line?
bash - self extracting script error
regexp match within a log file, return dynamic content above and below match
unix command to convert one column file into multiple column file specified by number of rows
searching for a certain timeframe using awk does not work
awk getting results back with multiple columns
extract lines between two line numbers 
extract lines between two line numbers 
bash script to grep through one file for a list names, then grep through a second file to match those names to get a lookup value
find special block at text ,with shell script
how to print a range of columns in a csv in awk?
trying to pass a paramater from a shell script to awk
random numbers generation with awk 
using sed or similar to modify lines in a file
finding a range of numbers of a file in another file using awk
sed: interpolating variables in timestamp format
awk command with  unix shell script
can i speed up awk program using nr function
using shell script to copy script from one file to another
grep using variable and regex
trying to create a string in awk, complains about division with zero
awk epoch diff with current and previous line
awk: csv split works, but ignores the last field in the row
if variable exists in col 1 of a file, set a separate variable equal to the corresponding value in col 2
bash script unable to get the variable
i am asking for the user to input a title, but i want to compare the "input" with my text file
awk searching for multiple fields
using awk to get the percentile of lines in a file
how to compare variable dynamically inside awk ?
print a group of the first consecutive lines matching a regex then exit
using sed with variable containing url
how to delete a line(record) from a file using php
replace a field in a line in a textfile
awk - unterminated regex
awk increment or change value of a column in a file
bash filter/strip output for specific text
bash filter/strip output for specific text
save variable from txt using awk
insert a string/number into a specific cell of a csv file
how to pass a bash variable into awk
unix awk command
awk replace pattern at specific line trough passing variables
awk command - multiple variable to return a variable
find text line1 in spreadsheet and get column 2
susbtitution in sed with spaces
how to use shell variables in awk script
awk -f ends up deleting the field i'm trying to return
unix script with awk
awk to skip the blank lines
awk to skip the blank lines
search and select decimal numbers in a text file line
awk/sed for test command
error in echo of awk command piped to wc -l
awk adding on zeroes
awk, end of line in script
how to count empty translations in .po with grep (or other lsb tool)?
awk rounding up numbers
awk rounding up numbers
awk rounding up numbers
loop over directory and file bash script - awk does not write to file
read lines with while loop return not desired answer
awk to handle multiple de-limiter:
awk : processing 2 files with different field separators
analyze the output of awk by c++filt command
using shell variable in awk
awk replace header of a text file
delete all reoccurrences of first line in a file using sed
replace a string by the content of a file
formatting with unix
convert tallies to relative probabilities
convert tallies to relative probabilities
is that possible to find files reside several level down in awk
sed search and replace specific column only
append to the end of a specific line
how can i pass an output file from a awk script to an argument in cat?
awk syntax error help identifying
oneliner to calculate complete size of all messages in maillog
diff report bash script
grep: find text in a heredoc
get specific lines in a range pattern from a text file
remove block of text between two lines based on content
remove block of text between two lines based on content
how to process file content 
how to process file content 
how to change specific value of xml attribute using scripting on mac
awk command and variable assigment
extract text from repeating xml elements to separate files using shell command
extract external tag info if inner tag exists
how to remove a line that match a pattern of sepific occurance?
how to remove a line that match a pattern of sepific occurance?
awk line to variable?
how to read lines terminating with a specific word into while loop
linux shell for substring muliti-lines content
shell, bash : grep the html tag in multiple lines
sed replace every nth occurrence
delete the line with a sepific occurance pattern in sed?
getting first line argument  after forking processes
if last char of line is  leftsquarebrc 0-9 rightsquarebrc 
splitting a large txt file into 200 smaller txt files on a regex using shell script 
how to append the lines using sed or awk until a particular pattern does not matches?
awk match lines with at least 2 digits and at least 2 letters in any order
awk match lines with at least 2 digits and at least 2 letters in any order
how to delete a newline (\n) if it is not followed by double quotes
use a regular expression to find some specific text
extract file content from match pattern to another match pattern
awk: write lines into multiple files
user defined variable inside awk
awk: pattern substitution in one file based on input from another file
sed: replacing nth word with matched pattern?
calling awk in a shell script
using awk to search for a string that has spaces
how to prevent sed from editing the line containing the first match of a pattern, when a variable is used?
bash scripting to remove specific portion
remove lines without n number of a specific character?
using the awk command  terminal to ignore repeats?
script/filter multi-line & multi-field records, with variable number of lines
awk cmd to capture the line from stdout
shell command to extract after a string1 and before string 2
awk - moving fields (corrected version)
bash script using awk to extract a key
how to get the lines from a file where a particular string is repeating more than once in each line?
how do i get the last non-empty line of a file using tail ?
awk print n results of search in one line and add comma separation
how to find specific number patterns in a data file
awk and regular expressions confusion
how to write bash script to search for ip's in a file and put write them to another file?
insert stuff at every nth occurence of a character in a file
search for a pattern "= leftsquarebrc char rightsquarebrc  leftsquarebrc string rightsquarebrc " using awk in a file
split file with awk numerating output files with double digits
shell script: overwrite entire line in a text file if a partial match is found
conditionally switch parts of line
bash - self extracting script error
sed replace does not come up with my desired result
how to do reach specific section of text file and then search
grep for multiple patterns with options for each patterns
awk : conditionally grab text in a file
search for a string, and retrieve all lines following it until another specific pattern
unix shell: summing up values, one per line but skipping every nth row
replace matches with values from other file
grep/sed/awk out everything before a certain line
text parsing using shell script
text parsing using shell script
replacing particular occurrence of a string with comment
itunes exported xml playlist refers to files in the wrong music structure
to find a pattern in a line and print the line
awk: counting errors in tomcat logs
shell script, search file for string
sort / uniq pipethrough usage
tcpdump header info grep or awk or sed?
shell: command with timeout, get output
using awk to get nth field from a particular line
using awk to get nth field from a particular line
sed/awk - pull lines between pattern x and y
unix match multiple patterns return success
bash - view a specific line in a file with corresponding line number
how to test if a string exists in a file and if so, check the remaining lines in the file for another string with bash shell
bash: if line matches - delete line + next 33 lines
how can i selectively awk a string?
bash: grep/awk/sed to extract variable data
bash: grep/awk/sed to extract variable data
bash: grep/awk/sed to extract variable data
modifying/ manipulating text using vim, sed or awk (again)
bash sum grouping loop
bash, extract string from text file with space delimiter
bash, extract string from text file with space delimiter
using awk to output lines between two patterns into different output files
increment letter variables in awk
linux command for physical memory, getting the value only
removing rows of a file following 'na's
remove lines after second pattern sed
greping strings from different lines of nmap output
save lines to separate files
grep for second word from the surrounding lines of first word
limit sed print section of file btw 2 regexp to first occurrence
inserting text below and above a matched pattern
how to print 2 consecutive lines after a pattern in file using awk and the matched line itself
how to print 2 consecutive lines after a pattern in file using awk and the matched line itself
how to use sed / awk / grep … to extract blocks from a file and each block save it into a file
how to print all lines except the line before a pattern in file using awk
 leftsquarebrc  leftsquarebrc  bash  rightsquarebrc  rightsquarebrc  how to operate string lines if pattern is found
find and replace in xml file
extracting xml elements which contains a certain string with sed
awk : ensure only one blank line after the output block
awk : ensure only one blank line after the output block
how to increment a number in several files if the number is not always the same?
splitting a file using awk on mac os x
how to get files list downloaded with scp -r
multiline search pattern 
capture text between similar start-end blocks and store result in separate files
calculate difference between two number in a file
passing variables from one side of linux pipe to other
match a pattern and print nth line if condition matches
get specific lines from a repeated range pattern in a text file
awk print record posterior to matched record (the post that already exists is about fields, not records)
extract the last occurence of a string that changes dynamically
use one awk command to search for a string within a matching string
regular expression to match a pattern inside awk command
conditional in awk while selecting a line
awk, from last column to \r\n (crnl)
bash - searching for a text in a file and storing it into a variable
get the highest value from a variable using bash script
using awk/find to output result and file name
shell script program to extract part of time stamp in message.log file
awk search line for bracket e.g  leftsquarebrc 
using awk or send to find a string and insert another complex string , before it
what does this awk sentence mean?
grep not finding ".*" string values
awk invert regular expression pattern rule
linux differences between consecutive lines
bash + replace string/value in column
how to check correctness of doxygen \return statements?
replace all control characters in a range of line with awk
is there any equivalent command grep -np "\t" some_file , using sed or awk
print unique lines that also match pattern
find and remove (updated)
extract only ip addresses from a txt file an put them into a line
extract only ip addresses from a txt file an put them into a line
conditional replacement of string fragment with sed (one-liner!)
how to only read lines that contain some letters at a specific position in the line
finding text files with less than 2000 rows and deleting them
awk: is there some flag to ignore comments?
how to grep the word after - bash?
awk show just digits
how to format a column with awk and printf when values are either numeric or string
how to awk specific characters from string in windows word file
bash: compound grep in
use sed/awk to delete redundant lines
use sed/awk to delete redundant lines
either grep or awk are ereasing the content of processed stream
unix awk command regex problem
either grep or awk are ereasing the content of processed stream
replace strings with evaluated string based on matched group (elegant way, not using for .. in)
printing certain number of rows using awk. and skipping certain rows
printing certain number of rows using awk. and skipping certain rows
bash: write regex matches to separate file
using sed with non-printable characters
remove unneeded context lines from diff output (using sed)
counting the number of residues in a file
how to append a counter of the number of pattern matches at the end of the line?
merge two lines generated from contigs.fa
deleting lines with sed or awk
deleting lines with sed or awk
how to delete specific words in a line with awk?
sequence length of fasta file
merge two lines generated from contigs.fa
modifying/ manipulating text using sed, awk or vim
modifying/ manipulating text using sed, awk or vim
spliting file at lines containing ' rightanglebrc ' character
removing duplicate blocks of lines from a file
how to append a counter of the number of pattern matches at the end of the line?
awk - append field from variable
pipe lines between two regex through another command
move line starting with # to the end of next line. preferred awk or sed
move line starting with # to the end of next line. preferred awk or sed
can i grep/awk a file and print its content with environment variables evaluated?
capture text between similar start-end blocks and store result in separate files
is there any better way to get mac address from arp table?
creating a one-pixel border of whitespace in eps
reversing groups of lines 
how to replace an entire sentence with a space 
assigning command's output to shell variable and get the variables size
unix grep command to return groups of rows in a textfile where it meets conditions
awk - remove character in regex
awk - remove character in regex
whats wrong with in my awk command?
matching consecutive lines with same beginning
how can i select same sequence of lines which is present multiple times in a file?
how can i select same sequence of lines which is present multiple times in a file?
grep versus awk: how do the search mechanisms differ
insert a line before specific id and renumerate id column
separate file into several
how to remove lines that begin with the same character?
how to grep multiple patterns together
remove newline char using shell script
perl multiline find and replace
bash: loop through file line by line, find specific string and append to each subsequent line until same string is found
bash & awk: loop through dir running two separate awk commands on all files and saving in new dir
bash & awk: loop through dir running two separate awk commands on all files and saving in new dir
parsing massive file with with grep, awk, etc
parsing a file line by line for key character in string and copying line
awk after grep: print value when grep returns nothing
linux - bash redirect a string to a file
linux - bash redirect a string to a file
match from pattern to end of file 
combine multiple awk commands
how to correctly write this arithmatic expression  / ubuntu 12.04?
how to extract file data from an http mime-encoded message ?
modify lines in a file which meet two conditions with sed or awk
modify lines in a file which meet two conditions with sed or awk
, how to extract a word and a following number from a file?
how to extract specific lines from a text file using awk?
grep - "dot match newline" option?
remove a line surrounded by blank lines
print lines matching a pattern only if the next line does not match the pattern
print lines matching a pattern only if the next line does not match the pattern
print lines matching a pattern only if the next line does not match the pattern
print lines matching a pattern only if the next line does not match the pattern
awk average part of column if lines (specific field) match
awk search for string and set exit code if it exists
awk: display matched regex (multiline)
split file into multiple files based upon differing start and end delimiter
sed to extract text between two strings
unix - find patterns in file, copy into another file
bash: find a string before another string in a file
awk '/^/' empty output (complete command inside)
find a string occurrence between two occurrences of other
head output till a specific line
head output till a specific line
how to extract the lines between patterns?
bash parsing of sectioned output of a command for specific lines
how to clear the specific lines from file based on some string in file 
awk remove non-numerical values
text processing...print the 1st occurance of pattern1 and 8th and 9th occurance of pattern 2
bash, parsing part of a file
grab nth occurence in between two patterns using awk or sed
parse space separated text file using awk
parse space separated text file using awk
compare string with regular expressions in if statement
how do i iterate through each line of a command's output ?
awk & sed split file
file content as regex for grep
excluding with grep
trimming new line characters via bash
how can i use gnu-utils to filter text like this?
i want to replace a specific line  file with sed
how to extract substring and numbers only using grep/sed
awk calculate average or zero
using environment variable (get its value from awk command) as a condition in while
how to read a value from .cnf file?
how can i extract sections of a file based on a "starting" and "ending" pattern
pass one command to another one on the terminal
find some text aa and then find first appearance of text bb after aa
how to insert data into file with ',' as a delimiter
what is the unix command to display all lines of a file with two certain strings
find words in the correct order
awk: filter block only if specific line does not exist
awk: filter block only if specific line does not exist
awk: filter block only if specific line does not exist
awk: filter block only if specific line does not exist
 tool that prints all strings between certain matched keywords
filter out a substring from a string  only once
filter out a substring from a string  only once
pcregrep a wiggle file to extract chromosome. multiple line regex search
how can i extract all conversations in a postfix log from a particular client using awk?
how can i extract all conversations in a postfix log from a particular client using awk?
replacing a string with space
how to make this awk command more simple
sed replace does not come up with my desired result
sed replace does not come up with my desired result
how to address error "bash: !d': event not found"  substitution
grep for a word after matching a pattern and print
how to store the result of an executed shell command in a variable in python?
use awk to replace lines containing pattern "fin(fname)"
bash - how can i take the ip address and make like expected list?
removing new line after a particular text via bash
awk - print only first line of duplicates and the line below it
list file names, not including two strings using grep
awking out lines after match with getline
print last matching line?
enumerate substitutions with sed or awk
awk print matching line and line before the matched
command or script to print word that exists under the first match line
return lines in a row containing a string
awk regular expression print every n occurence
using bash script to find line number of string in file
awk search command for case-insensitivy
edit a text file using a bash script
swap two lines script
summing up numbers based on the word using awk
reproducing grep "my pattern" myfile.log | sort | uniq | wc -l in awk
how to print a particular nr with awk
how to correctly
printing previous field in awk
how to combine the current line and the next line based on a pattern that exists in the next line. (using awk)
shell script to check ping packet loss & avg latency on aix
get specific lines in a range pattern from a text file
delete everything before pattern including pattern using awk or sed
grep redirect non-matching
how to ignore all lines before a match occurs ?
how to get match regex pattern using awk from file?
use awk to split a file into pieces
extract nth line after matching pattern
awk : ensure only one blank line after the output block
extract nth line after matching pattern
awk : ensure only one blank line after the output block
tail script to write out contents of a file from the end up to a matched pattern
print lines between two regex using sed
can awk print lines that do not have a pattern?
using sed/awk to print lines with matching pattern or another matching pattern
bash, sed, awk: extracting lines within a range
sed/awk - print text between patterns spanned across multiple lines
how to get sub-expression value of regexp in awk?
how to get sub-expression value of regexp in awk?
how to check the process scheduling policy other than `ps` output
selective printing of file
from linux , find number of lines in which a string occurs
chomping file down
awk -- how to assign a variable's value from matching regex which comes later?
using sed to output a file from first line and up to but not including a regular expression match
awk select input files from list
nawk/awk: how to present an error message while there is no string match?
nawk/awk: how to present an error message while there is no string match?
copy contents of a file starting from regex word to end of the file
auto-complete awk variable
print line after matching a regex pattern
is a /start/,/end/ range expression ever useful in awk?
printing all contents except matching range pattern using awk
print a range of lines onto one line in awk
is a /start/,/end/ range expression ever useful in awk?
shell awk print in range
shell awk print in range
grep lines with a maximum number of characters
manipulate directories using cut or awk?
counting chars from right - shell script
how to add up hours and minutes spent on a task in awk?
awk: dont display matched regex (multiline)
how to awk or grep a variable, without using echo?
sed print from match until other match not inclusive
sed / awk: delete all lines matching a word not followed by another word
get lines from stdout after timestamp
how do i use sed to substitute the third occurrence of the same regex in the file?
display only the n'th match of grep
display only the n'th match of grep
freebsd extract data from log
consolidate awk expressions
awk same start and end pattern
grep +a: print everything after match
adding character in front of a line which is having a specific string
how to find empty lines after a } using bash
how to find empty lines after a } using bash
prepend **heredoc** to a file, 
add symbol to the end of each string in the file
can i use regex in the record separator in awk 
weird awk syntax, what does it mean?
why is my for loop running and resetting in awk?
awk between 2 timestamps
bash: append new line/string/text if input string has 2 lines
append repeated text using sed or awk?
add a specific line after every nth pattern match .. awk sed anything you got
how to add the record count at end of the file using awk
can awk print lines that do not have a pattern?
sed - how to replace a string only on the matching part of the lines in a csv file?
sed - remove quotes within quotes in large csv files
parse log and output 2 strings in 1 command
updating catalina.properties file using shell script
shell script - print selected columns
error in code ... need correction
how to sort the columns of a csv file by the ratio of two columns?
working with awk regex
expand regex-like notation to multiple literals
shell script to append string to the end of all csv fields in 2nd column
shell script to append string to the end of all csv fields in 2nd column
how to read in csv file to array  script
how to read in csv file to array  script
stream linux cut line by line
formatting specific output from dmidecode
text file data parsing lines and output as columns
how do i convert a tab-separated values (tsv) file to a comma-separated values (csv) file ?
awk doesn't work on first row delimited by ^a
awk/sedmanipulate text file, create a csv file using a feeding file
using sed or awk to parse current field/column into additional fields/columns on the same line
create an output file from two input files based on column match
appending text to column in existing tab-delimited file from another file
appending text to column in existing tab-delimited file from another file
replacing a string pattern with another sequence 
replacing a string pattern with another sequence 
replacing a string pattern with another sequence 
prepending text to a specific column in a tab-delimited file?
how can i extract a subset from a column/field using awk?
add character to particular column using awk
return middle of the text string
update last field with value from line count (awk?)
adding columns with awk. what is wrong with this awk command?
is it possible to print the awk output in the same line
how to get a parameter from a complex xml text 
awk only processes first line of input file? extract attribute values from html elements
could sed or awk use nul character as record separator?
read line by line between a pattern, then print in de-limited format
working in mawk; but not in awk
sed - replacing characters within a line
working in mawk; but not in awk
working in mawk; but not in awk
trying to extract sections from nmap output
trying to extract sections from nmap output
how to split the rows using awk?
get individual k,v fields from a single line  script
how to use grep or awk to extract specific block from a file
convert rows based entry to column based 
missing field and extra space after using for loop in awk
please help to remove specific lines from text
clean server infected with c3284d virus, using search and replace
reproducing grep "my pattern" myfile.log | sort | uniq | wc -l in awk
reproducing grep "my pattern" myfile.log | sort | uniq | wc -l in awk
awk: for every record extract specific information
awk using an index key over a range
bash script to kill screens with the same name
print specific number of pattern matches
grep for second word from the surrounding lines of first word
doing math on the linux 
how to format this text file
awk program from solaris machine gives warnings  nawk
awk program from solaris machine gives warnings  nawk
awk program from solaris machine gives warnings  nawk
gawk and systime()
change date format in first column using awk/sed
awk - print only first line of duplicates and the line below it
grep using variable and regex
awk - transmission of a variable with getline to system ()?
awk - how to combine the two commands?
regex that doesn't work with sed
how can i get an http status code with an awk one-liner?
replace section of an xml file with awk or sed
replace empty field by x on a positional file
replace empty field by x on a positional file
change the nth field of a csv file according to xth field string
how to add extra delimiters to the end of a csv file is some are found to be missing?
error when using head command inside while loop
awk and operator
reformat a large text file into one line strings (via bash)
use awk to divide the values in a csv file by a certain number
fill in rows missing row labels for repeated values
how to convert one column to date format in awk script?
using awk substr
convert tallies to relative probabilities
convert tallies to relative probabilities
remove dot(.) from specific columns using gsub and awk
how do i use bash to selectively remove newlines?
how do you split a file base on a token?
bash - printing out sentences line by line
using awk remove unwanted records whith particular fields
reading set of records from a file 
reading set of records from a file 
how to print block of lines matching a pattern using awk?
how to print block of lines matching a pattern using awk?
how to replace a word with an increasing number
awk - transmission variable assigned in the 'begin' to 'date'?
using grep or awk to find files that contain both "a" and "b" that are on different lines
multi-line grep with positive and negative filtering
mutiple xml blocks in the same file export via bash
grep timestamp for last 24 hours 
shell script to print lines which match a pattern occurring on consecutive lines
shell script to print lines which match a pattern occurring on consecutive lines
shell script to print lines which match a pattern occurring on consecutive lines
shell script to print lines which match a pattern occurring on consecutive lines
create one formatted string with bbcode
bash simple string parse
select row and element in awk
randomly pick lines from a file without slurping it with unix
randomly pick lines from a file without slurping it with unix
sed-style replace letters with random letters, numbers with random numbers
awk - print only duplicates
how to average columns over an id?
multiple field separator in awk (field separator being together )
awk: elegant way to fetch the word after a separator
how to get a pattern from a file and search in another file 
how to get a pattern from a file and search in another file 
awk script for search in a fasta file
find and replace with keeping part of the string intact?
reading data from a file using bash and getting sum for some columns with awk
the command 'find' inside awk does not work
awk scripting for simulation
use array variable in awk?
bash output to csv columns
want to alter field separator to allow spaces in particular data field
awk's possibility of having the output reflect the input with regards to field separation
csv formatting in batch files
replacing matching columns using sed/awk/
how to remove field separators in awk when printing $0?
copy one column over another in a delimited file
awk to filter csv files
get the file name from the path
awk first line not working removing columns
extract data from txt file and get concise output
awk capture input quotes as a single field
select columns from a line starting from specific word to last column ?
awk search on multiple fields of a multi line record file
use grep to extract first word after match
multiple field separators in awk
realign field from right to left?
compare and print lines from second file
remove leading and trailing space in field in awk
change the 2nd column from positive to negative and vice versa
sed/ awk - update characters in file
linux/unix bash basic script awk/sed
remove leading and trailing space in field in awk
removing string between two symbol in line
shell command to up count version number
shell command to up count version number
edit files 
edit files 
assign a shell variable in awk
cut and replace bash
use sed awk to replace variable defined in another file
how can we program this  scripting?
how to achieve the below two requirements through shell script commands?
how to achieve the below two requirements through shell script commands?
delimiter substitution excluding character inside string column
syntax error in awk script
change column values of csv file based of value of another column (using awk, vim, or similar terminal command)
replace string in column by string in next column (one file)
remove all lines from a given text file based on a given list of ids
remove first columns then leave remaining line untouched in awk
remove first columns then leave remaining line untouched in awk
modifying text column wise with sed/awk
how can i compare the numeric values of the last two fields in a file?
shell script to validate csv fields
shell script to validate csv fields
swap two columns with awk
sed replace data in the nth column if the line begins with x
sed replace data in the nth column if the line begins with x
replace the char conditionally using awk script
reorder columns in a csv file by number
sed - delete all characters before dash
awk line processing $nf
how to print everything after a match?
how to assign a variable to another variable in awk, why this code not working?
combining multiple csv files together and also adding a column during concatenation
combining multiple csv files together and also adding a column during concatenation
combining multiple csv files together and also adding a column during concatenation
use awk to limit a flag based on two columns of a file
how to erase lines with nothing in second column ?
awk: how to substitute a string every four lines?
awk: print columns with original format
awk log2 division/ ratio zero
add tab separator to grep
add a column of tabs into a tab-separated file
how to make awk gsub return a tab-separated line?
remove new line if next line does not begin with a number
bash $path is caching every modification
awk system() call w/variable
awk system() call w/variable
load multiple files containing text into mysql
use sed to merge lines and add comma
use sed to merge lines and add comma
awk part of bash script not working properly
awk part of bash script not working properly
how to use awk or sed to format a block style record into a table?
extract set of lines using separator from file 
how can i get the soa serial number from a file with sed?
using double quotes as record separator in awk
taking two lines as the input
sed command to replace specific value after finding specific pattern
script to show vsftpd users home dir size, last login time, last ip etc
add a new column to the file
appending characters to end of specific lines in a multifasta file
linux split a column into two different columns in a same csv file
how to print to bash file descriptors in awk
shell script to search and export to csv file/excel sheet
convert a nagios config file to csv
shell float number in expr
awk - regular expression matching against substrings
how to use float numbers on busybox?
gawk script - print filename in begin section
how to assign a variable to another variable in awk, why this code not working?
how to detect whether a record ends with rs in awk?
one liner to extract data block by block
awk - regular expression matching against substrings
grep specific number of consequtive lines that follow a pattern from a file
awk: check if field value is in one of the given
how to reorder lines of a file using a for loop and array using awk
insert lines in file
how to assign a variable to another variable in awk, why this code not working?
how to replace a variable's value using common shell commands?
sed, awk, perl or other for de-interleaving text file
sed, awk, perl or other for de-interleaving text file
understanding sub used in an awk command
extract last word of a file /sed/awk
how to keep blank lines in the end of a file when i user cat command 
passing the value of nr to a variable in awk
awk only match first match of line in multiline text
extract last block of data in a file using awk
awk: if total number of lines is greater print file
using awk to count no of records
knowing number of lines via awk in one line
using awk to count no of records
bash: awk returning space after result
compare a text file with another files
how to compare two columns in multiple files  with awk
how to compare two columns in multiple files  with awk
awk with two files, one possibly empty
using awk to join certain lines of two files and then sort the merged file
using awk to join certain lines of two files and then sort the merged file
using awk to get the percentile of lines in a file
awk print column for a given range
select row and element in awk
how to know what to
select row and element in awk
merging two files with columns 
merging two files with columns 
add a new column to the file based on another file
if else and awk ... correction needed in my command
best way to print rows not common to two large files 
using awk to get the percentile of lines in a file
how using a bash command in awk
using awk to select lines in file a, based on finding matches in file b
linux awk command for isolation
awk script to process 400 .txt files
shell scripting print next line
adding a delimiter after each file processed within awk
conditional statement using sed
create a file based on another file
averaging only second column data from multiple files
awk to average over columns from multiple files
awk: printing filename once when criteria are met several times in a file
linux: merging multiple files, each on a new line
extract values from a text file with awk
bash: grep multiple items in a file loop
print specific number line of files list
print specific number line of files list
assigning command's output to shell variable and get the variables size
awk -- how to assign a variable's value from matching regex which comes later?
extracting lines under headings matching from list in other file
print the names which are in both files
how to print un join lines using join command or awk?
print the names which are in both files
use a file to extract specified rows from another file
fetch a list of items from a table without using database software
fetch a list of items from a table without using database software
recursive search of multiple occurrences of multiple strings
awk: using a file to filter another one (out.tr)
awk: using a file to filter another one (out.tr)
awk: using a file to filter another one (out.tr)
calculating distances with awk
calculating distances with awk
bash: how to keep lines in a file that have fields that match lines in another file?
how to find rows containing integers given in a file?
subtract columns from different files with awk
merge/concatenate based on a condition
subtract columns from different files with awk
grep part of nth lines linux
awk using an index key over a range
how to implement this in awk or shell?
how to multiply two tables 
i need to merge two files and create a new files
i need to merge two files and create a new files
i need to merge two files and create a new files
create an output file based from two files based on column matches
create an output file based from two files based on column matches
using an array in awk when working with two files
comparing two columns in two files
comparing two files for duplicate strings using mac bash
matching data in separate files
ignoring the first row but still printing it during pattern matching using awk
print result to every second line of output file in awk
print result to every second line of output file in awk
compare 2 fixed length flat files based on fields 
sum same column across multiple files using awk ?
commandline output lines that are specified in another file
sort a file based on a column in another file
sort a file based on a column in another file
searching of common strings in two given input files
linux: search for coincidences in four different files
copy differences between two files 
comparing three files in awk
grep -f alternative sed?awk?
matching strings in awk taking the input fro the text files
searching of common strings in two given input files
removing lines containing a unique first field with awk?
how to find words from a file into another file? linux
how to grep exact matches from a file of a list of strings
match list from one file1, extract corresponding lines form file 2
"while read line do" and grep problems
bash - compare 2 text files and find missing lines
awk search and print number of lines based on a column of another file?
awk search and print number of lines based on a column of another file?
awk compare columns from two files, impute values of another column
combine one colum from two files into a thrid file
subtract column from another column in a file and replace the column by subtracted result
replace column in one file with column from another using awk?
printing table of rows specified by another file
search for lines in a file that contain de lines of a second file
sed parsing xml file1 index file2
sed parsing xml file1 index file2
awk multiple variables for multiple file processing
substract between columns and print it with awk
remove lines from file
parsing /proc/pid/smaps with awk
how to remove all lines containg less than n number of items
transpose a column to a line after detecting a pattern
check and return invalid data
remove blank lines not working in sed
filter lines by number of fields
filter lines by number of fields
sed: first and last empty lines not removed
how to delete the space between lines in a text file with awk?
awk to skip the blank lines
bash/awk append next line if the columns is less than 4
search multiple columns for values below a threshold using awk or other bash script
grep specific string in mixed file on linux
print lines that have more than 2 items
capturing string ignoring escape sequence
printing lines using awk which have more than 3 space-delimited words?
repeat data in the empty lines untill a non-empty line occurs
sed/awk - how to remove lines with less than 3 columns
logging a table and appending other text data to a .csv file in python
 how do i print the first c style comment from a file
how to find out the number of fields in a certain line using awk?
select text after two equal strings
filtering rows based on number of columns with awk
make a file counting instances in sets of 5
delete the lines that don't have 4 columns
make a file counting instances in sets of 5
using awk to count no of records
move last column title name and put to be on first column on all rows
find values greater than or equal to 0.021 to 0 using awk
delete string between 2 special strings on every line in file
sum two fields separately
finding text files with less than 2000 rows and deleting them
how can i replace consecutive "\n" with only one "\n" from a string in a variable
awk solution for comparing current line to next line and printing one of the lines based on a condition
awk solution for comparing current line to next line and printing one of the lines based on a condition
awk or sed - how to use conditional expression to select data?
bad max value in column in awk
bad max value in column in awk
how do you skip the last line w/ awk?
append space and \ character to each line, except the last
read lines between two specific lines
bash command to print column at specific range of line numbers
how to calculate the sum of numbers in rows in a space delimited file?
how can i delete every xth line in a text file?
how can i delete every xth line in a text file?
choosing even-numbered rows from a file
duplicating line with sed and cut command
to align rows fetched from shell script output
how to process every other line 
how to process every other line 
how to process every other line 
how to give double space between every three lines in a text file using awk?
sed - inserting a comma after every 4th line in plain text file
unix skipping first line if empty
unix skipping first line if empty
unix skipping first line if empty
calculating sum of gradients with awk
bash using first lines counted output to add whitespace to following lines
awk script for finding smallest value from column
how can i print second and last three lines from multiple text files?
printing selected lines in large file
compare two files by two column matching
get a difference file by specific patterns in two text files
how to check whehter rows of a file within the rows of another file
awk - how two scripts interact with each other?
how to store missmatching rows from two files to a new file
how do i list the file content's selected lines?
head and grep simultaneously
combine split lines with awk / gawk
use grep to remove words from dictionary whose roots are already present
either grep or awk are ereasing the content of processed stream
shell script to monitor disk io not working properly
how would i merge these 2 commands together?
inserting line between two lines having second line starting with certain pattern
printing selected rows from a file using awk
dele remaining characters from every cell
need help trimming csv file with awk and sed without hacking it
how to replace some digits with letters in each line of a file (according to the letter that exist in column 5th and 6th of that line)?
awk print values depending on flag
how to split this txt file into small files using shell scripting?
get file names, time stamps and md5 checksums from a log file
eliminate character after reading with awk
awk syntax and string error
getting unique rows based on sum of values in 2,3,4 column
perform character replacement/removal on only one column of a delimited file?
bash simple string parse
unix output of command to text file
what is the easiest way to remove 1st and last line from file with awk?
parsing the output of /proc/net/dev with awk and dismissing the first two lines
bash simple string parse
insert a file after a specific line
number of total records
awk repeat reading for all lines
scripts: copy only the part between two specified lines
using awk to print specific line with neighbour lines
print 3, 4 and 5 line of the file 
how do i list the file content's selected lines?
using vars as numbers in sed
match and replace digits with sed in specific lines
cutting a specific column from a space delimited file
awk scripting for simulation
sed: how to remove every 10 lines in a file (thin or subsample the file)
awk split file by seperator and count
how to use the 'split' command
delete every other row in csv file using awk or grep
how to split a file using a numeric suffix
remove odd or even lines from text file in terminal 
using awk to count characters and modify file accordingly
arranging pairs of rows in to single row
merge two lines into one
from a column, take each 3 values and put them in a row
gawk not working correctly in finding min between 3 lines
unix awk deleting every two lines
use sed or awk - or other text processor - to find/replace a number in a range
use sed or awk - or other text processor - to find/replace a number in a range
removing chunks of lines with sed
removing chunks of lines with sed
unix awk deleting every two lines
unix awk deleting every two lines
add consecutive entries in a column
what is a script that would help parse a set of lines that have been incorrectly word wrapped?
sed & awk print entries in a file on one line
cutting the top two lines after every six lines from a file containing 180 lines
extracting values from text file using awk
remove every x lines from text input
match specific lines in sed command
passing variable to nr in awk command not working
how to pass filename through variable to be read it by awk
keep the first 52000 characters of the first line 
keep the first 52000 characters of the first line 
calculate distance between two chains in pdb file
calculate distance between two chains in pdb file
replacing values in large table using conversion table
print specific field from first line in file using awk
compare two fields not in the same column in consecutive lines
replacing every occurrence of a char except when it's in a pattern
how to read specific line and specific position?
separate comma delimited cells in the specified column to new rows with shell script
bash script to get command values in two files and write is a pattern to new file
header not being printed
remove "#" comment lines from the middle of a file
 how do i print the first c style comment from a file
grep -b emulation with ring buffer / awk
chomping file down
printing a line of a file given line number
sed command to get nth tab separated value between lines x and y
introduce character at specific line number
print text between two strings on the same line
sum values for similar lines using awk
how to parse data vertically ?
extracting specific data from a table
simple xml text parsing
how can i split csv file into separate files with header row and 1 line of data
bash: read file line by line and sed to append
awk - removal of the same fields on the basis of the "$1"
awk: extracting columns based on column values
periodic output via bash
adding text to a csv file through shell script
cut or awk command to print first string of first row
printing previous field in awk
read line by line awk and if
awk/perl, select different fields and combine them
move last column title name and put to be on first column on all rows
sub, divide and print rest of line with awk
white space in awk print and match
extract string between two characters 
scripts: copy only the part between two specified lines
chomping file down
search lines until match then assign value to variable
sed command inserts new line after execution - how to avoid?
how to add new line to existing txt file
how can i merge two specific lines with sed?
is my bash file stupid, can it be simplified?
replace lines by line number with lines from other file
print 3, 4 and 5 line of the file 
get the contents of a line by line number in perl, awk, grep
get the contents of a line by line number in perl, awk, grep
search and add a pattern in a big file
cut or awk command to print first string of first row
get specific line from text file using just shell script
selecting only required lines from unix shell prompt
how do i extract the text present in the 7th line of a file
how to select specific rows and columns
cartesian product of two files (as sets of lines) in gnu/linux
bash: how to extract thousands of non-sequential lines from a file
awk to identify unique information in specific column in more than one file
obtain patterns from a file, compare to a column of another file, print matching lines, using awk
how can i grep everything except the pattern and its next n lines?
awk extract lines with keywords
using awk if condition together with in an array condition
how to replace an integer from a column for another integer contained in another file, python or awk
counting specific column that correspond to a variable in other column
extracting only certain lines from a file
compare two files using awk command recursively
replacing a specific column of a file with the column of another file using sed 
consolidating overlaping log files
extract non delimited columns from the delimited column file
match and replace different values in same column from list
assigining data from one file to other
filtering file dependent on a value falling within a range specified in another file
match records of a file with field values of another file in awk
how to find the matching records from 2 files 
compare one file (keeping rows order) with a "static" file
compare one file (keeping rows order) with a "static" file
deduplicating a text file and keeping the last occurence in one output file and moving others to another output file
grep word in one file, and use that word to match in fasta file, adding the fasta sequence to the first file
removing specific blocks of lines from a file
delete lines with specific pattern
grep -f file search
grep or awk to match a line and the following with a specific pattern
restrict pattern to specified strings
grep or awk to match a line and the following with a specific pattern
extract specific lines (indices given) from a file (strings)
bash: check if multiple files in a directory contain strings from a list
weird behavior with diff | grep | sed
awk: check if value is not in array
how to find which line is missing in another file
append columns on the right to an awk file after matching a pattern
filtering file entries based on another file as match condition
compare two files with awk or sed
column by column comparison 
find the similarities between two files
grepping progressively through large file
sort a column by number of identical occurrences - using awk, sort, tr or uniq?
linux shell: combine two string from files, if there is same word in a string
column aggregation 
how to subtract the two files 
split a file based on the string from the other file
compare two files and adding zero if no values in 2nd file
batch file that compares id's of lines in two files and writes it to another file| using awk
check if a certain field exists in a list that is also part of a database?
shell sorting file according to a pattern
combine two awk commands
find and replace one csv from another csv
join on first column of two files
replacing ip with server name in fping output
merging two files with awk and changing last column for duplicates
awk statements - if not found (grep'ed) do
delete lines in a file based on another file
search pattern bash variable to awk
replace characters 92-97 in position "x" on line
fgrep: sorting the results to files
matching entries from several input files
delete lines with specific pattern
properly join two files based on 2 columns in common
how to subtract the two files 
if column a in file 1 equals column b in file 2, print line
compare two columns in different files and append data for the shared items - unix
how to know if my file was translated correctly
join two files together (awk)
using awk to merge two files associating numbers
replace string in a file with value from another file
efficient way to map ids
 to consider common values in only in specific column
combine 2 files with awk based last colums
sed replacing values from input file
grep and output pattern after match string
grep and output pattern after match string
two file numeric comparison in awk
awk associative array with pattern as index
how to read many input files in awk?
changing a character of columns of a large file
awk replace column from another file but for a range of lines only
how to compare column values in two files using shell?
insert text into file after a specific text
add a column to multiple text files with bash
add a column to multiple text files with bash
adding a column which derive from another column by an expression with awk
add a column to multiple text files with bash
bash command to search for a string in file and replace the value with value from another file
how to see if number in column from file1 is between numbers from columns in file2 using bash - nested loops?
records filtering
copy 6th value of last line of text file, paste into another existing file
awk multiply rows in file1 from single record in file2
search replace string in a file based on column in other file
search replace string in a file based on column in other file
delete lines from file -- awk
how do i use sed/regex to find the last multiline match?
join on hyphenated index field 
how can i automatically disregard the last three lines of a file?
printing lines from a file using an input file that contains the line numbers
use awk on prose
replace matches with values from other file
extract content from many files based on constant file
shell script error unexpected else token
line and string position of grep match
sum a column in awk and print each line of said column divided by the sum
bash script to get command values in two files and write is a pattern to new file
bash script to get command values in two files and write is a pattern to new file
how to split awk field correctly
sed wraps some lines, not all
bash/awk append next line if the columns is less than 4
sed wraps some lines, not all
why a ~ in double quotes within awk caused syntax error
why doesn't my awk one-liner work when i call it from perl?
gawk print largest value from each column
counting equal lines in two files
counting equal lines in two files
to attach suffix to name column in a table so that it may be read in r
to attach suffix to name column in a table so that it may be read in r
print lines matching a pattern only if the next line does not match the pattern
how to use awk in this situation
how to delete the rest of the records after a pattern which occurred for the second time in a .csv file
extract nth line after matching pattern
extract nth line after matching pattern
extract nth line after matching pattern
awk : ensure only one blank line after the output block
extract nth line after matching pattern
awk : ensure only one blank line after the output block
extract nth line after matching pattern
awk : ensure only one blank line after the output block
on aix, grep -b -a -m does not work. any solution with sed or awk
extract nth line after matching pattern
awk : ensure only one blank line after the output block
storing values instead of printing them with awk
count occurrences after a string match with bash text utilities
how to use awk for a variable  script
bash: how can i replace what follows the equals sign consistently while skipping specific instances of key=value?
grep (awk) a file from a to first empty line
get a substring after a certain word
get a substring after a certain word
how to print everything after a match?
extract nth line after matching pattern
awk : ensure only one blank line after the output block
simple way to insert line to particular position in file
adding a single date to the first column of a file
awk - how to "re-awk" the output?
extract data from text files
local variables declared inside a function awk
find a pattern and modify the next line without modifying the other contents in the file. preferably linux based commands (sed, awk etc)
make all entries in an ascii file in one column in awk
removing a substring from a column in a text file
replacing a particular multiline pattern using awk
how to extract words between two non characters patterns?
one-liners to remove lines in which a specific character appears more than x times
awk add one more column is 3rd column equals string
grep two particular columns
how to solve the point in regex?
unix: print file name and line number of each line that exceeds 80 characters of each file in a folder
unix: print file name and line number of each line that exceeds 80 characters of each file in a folder
how to delete the space between lines in a text file with awk?
awk to skip the blank lines
delete single character rows in a text file
delete single character rows in a text file
display lines that have an odd number of characters using grep
using awk to search for lines that have a number of digits
field manipulation
bash script has output from awk that combined several log files, unable to sort final output properly
bash script has output from awk that combined several log files, unable to sort final output properly
how to search for two different expressions 
awk: counting errors in tomcat logs
grep multiple strings and know which string was located and where
match from pattern to end of file 
awk cmd to capture the line from stdout
bash sort and format text output
bash sort and format text output
awking out lines after match with getline
awk - use particular line again to match with patterns
using awk to iterate through list of files?
calculate difference between list of numbers from a file
pass variable to awk command
bash: sed -e not allowing my variable
sed : insert lines after specific pattern with newline
linux bash commands to remove duplicates from a csv file
awk: how to remove duplicated lines in a file and output them in another file at the same time?
edit the current file and read from the edited line
shell - awk - reading from variable
awk: setting environment variables directly from within an awk script
awk--print from end of line till string is found
loop - extract text for record until the next record
perl/awk/sed one liner for removing directory name from a text file containing list of paths
awk to fill empty column value with previous non-empty column value:
how to grep "ohn" in certain column?
split file with positional value condition with awk
awk tolower function not working when matching more than one word per line
awk grep the last 30 days of logs by keyword
awk grep the last 30 days of logs by keyword
replace first nth occurences of string1 by string2 after string3, within a file (i.e multiline pattern)
how to use awk to enclose fields with commas in quotation marks?
combine two files  with out repetation
unix code wanted to change column values
add quotes to words matching regex in file awk or sed
parsing text file lines
parsing text file lines
awk instead of sort | uniq & grep
awk instead of sort | uniq & grep
awk instead of sort | uniq & grep
getting the number of unique values
adding numbers across multiple files
getting the number of unique values
how to extract one column from multiple files and paste into one file?
adding text to end of line using awk
group the results of grep command
bash script that adds quantities by categories
awk-how to improve this example?
split file based off of two columns 
split file based off of two columns 
split log file using a column with awk or sed
insert lines based on numeric value
keeping first character in string, in a specific single field
using bash to read elements on a diagonal on a matrix and redirecting it to another file
awk print multiple column file into single column
how do i count the number of times a string appears in a text file with only awk?
awk associative array with pattern as index
print columns with awk
bash: sum fields of a line
print columns with awk
use awk to filter files that have 0 value
looping over input fields as array
awk - remove character in regex
bsd sed unable to replace all ",0,"
repeating regex replace with sed
how to split a file into multiple files based on a delimiter, and remove the delimiter also, 
how to sum column of different file  scripting
bash split one line file into more lines based on a condition
merge two csv files horizontally with different columns
trim column to fixed length in file 
simple script that replaces a variable by a path with awk
combine two files  with out repetation
unix code wanted to change column values
ls -l with some modifications
partitioned running total in a text file
split file with awk numerating output files with double digits
awk: is there some flag to ignore comments?
how to i copy a variable number of lines from one file to another using shell script?
swap value in column 1
awk: handle positions with nr in a if loop. next and previous position
assign strings in a line to variables using bash
awk count frequency
column operations in file linux shell
parsing a schedule to upload to google calendar
extract last and second last strings of a file  variables
why is awk not printing out newlines?
using awk to remove the byte-order mark
awk - remove line if field is duplicate
how to use regex to match asterisk in awk
compute numerical values from a space separated text file, within a range of lines
prevent column shift after character removal
bash replace string with contents from second file
find first duplicate line in a file
find first duplicate line in a file
basic awk help: want to scan a rails log and find number of unique ips per day
how could i print an array slice in awk?
prevent bc from auto truncating leading zeros when converting from hex to binary
reading from file -- awk
how to extract text between parentheses within a longer string using awk?
use bash script to extract certain type names and corresponding numbers
find files that contain exactly two forward slashes
delete nodes in xml if they contain certain text using sed
is it possible to use awk to print all line in a file and then do a command on a single column?
split file using awk
efficiently splitting one file into several files by value of column
split file based on text inside file
split log file using a column with awk or sed
quickest way to split a large file based on text within the file 
add number of line and a specific character
bash: if file exists, read line, do this *then* than, then continue to next line
append variable and increment variable for each nr
find the first or third column
split file or extract lines that differ based on a pattern
replace space character at the end of a line with a specific string
awk null data option
split file based off of two columns 
divide the first entry and last entry of each row in a file using awk
remove strings after each first word in a text file
awk output to string or case command error
removing space between numbers from a text file
how to i add two columns in awk ubuntu that are strings(which are integers)?
rearrange columns using cut
create name/value pairs based on file output
bash - take nth column in a text file
redis: who is eating my field when piping llen results through awk?
how to save the output of this awk command to file?
how can write the multiple files with sed from pattern matched
get only a part of the line using awk
how to know what to
how to know what to
extracting string/values from a large text/dat file
awk, printf, and an equation in a variable
need help  script
awk-how to improve this regular expression?
change date format in first column using awk/sed
how to sort the lines in a file from shortest to longest?
sorting lines from longest to shortest
how to print the number of characters in each line of a text file
sort a file based on length of chars in the first column/row
add timestamp to cat output from shell script
stream linux cut line by line
awk substr several times in a row
how can i remove a doubled section of a string?
can i use awk to convert all the lower-case letters into upper-case?
can i use awk to convert all the lower-case letters into upper-case?
format of file using awk in powershell
how can i format the output of a bash command in neat columns
reformatting separated char to couples
awk command to change epoch time to date and list epoch on same line
formatting a string column in csv in a sybase understandable date time format
bash: if file exists, read line, do this *then* than, then continue to next line
bash how to print for loop output into one line?
bash how to print for loop output into one line?
awk script adjusting format
is my bash file stupid, can it be simplified?
convert while read line to awk
how can write the multiple files with sed from pattern matched
sum numbers each 80 lines one line awk
how to print all the columns after a particular number using awk?
awk - apply to all fields except one?
subtrating the numbers in first column with awk or sed
subtrating the numbers in first column with awk or sed
shell script to filter word in the line
how to split existing apache logfile by month?
how to split existing apache logfile by month?
merge lines of a txt file using shell script
match "/" once in awk
how to delete the last space at the end of each line in a text file? (shell scripts)
remove newlines in some lines
awk remove characters after number
awk: find and replace in certain field only
parse text, pick value after `:` colon, trimming surrounding whitespace
parse text, pick value after `:` colon, trimming surrounding whitespace
use awk to find avg of a column
bash: how does float arithmetic work?
use awk to find avg of a column
error in code ... need correction
awk - extracting information from an xyz-format matrix
pass awk calculation results to variables
linux bc command total counts
pass awk calculation results to variables
parsing values from top command and then add them up
adding users to linux box from ldap
using output of awk to run command
how do i calculate the mean of a column
awk linux take difference and add tab delimited columns file
listing elements awk
how to do string replacement for specified number of times using linux commands?
cluster lines sharing the same column 1 into one line
how to join (sum) columns 
awk converting a "long date" to datetime
add expr within awk
how to use stat command inside awk
how to append some command output at the end of each line in a vi file?
awk with nested if else
how to append the count of numbers in each line of text using awk?
how to append a tab to the end of every line in a text file
reformating a text file
awk -f ends up deleting the field i'm trying to return
counting interface types with awk
bash,postfix, awk, error in filtering deferred mail output
bash,postfix, awk, error in filtering deferred mail output
bash,postfix, awk, error in filtering deferred mail output
unix: cannot add "\\ \n" even with escaping to the end of line
how to insert a char after specified number
print n line after the pattern till blank line is reached
group of columns in awk
reset row number count in awk
print rest of the fields in awk
splitting a timestamp in the middle of a line
arithmetic  script
how to truncate of a real value and discard its non-integer part in awk?
arithmetic  script
numbering lines awk script
how to replace a particular column in a csv with some string?
how to move last column to nth column?
rearrange columns using awk or cut command
seperating a nested field into two new fields, maintaining order
substituting nth character of a field with awk
ksh calculate percentage of a colum where values  leftanglebrc  2
awk help: replace 4th octet in ip address with a different ip in csv spreadsheet
awk help: replace 4th octet in ip address with a different ip in csv spreadsheet
inserting variable value in line x and field x unix bash
awk or sed to change column value in a file
how can i emulate `uniq -d` in awk?
put awk code  and sort the result
put awk code  and sort the result
why can i use fs=x to define awk's field separator only in some situations
detect two consecutive lines matching a pattern with sed
reading hexdump file byte by byte /awk
extracting cities from text file
take the last word from a line and add it at the beginning using bash
simple awk command issue (fs, ofs related)
value / pair update in awk
value / pair update in awk
how can i remove lines from a file with more than a certain number of entries
how can i remove lines from a file with more than a certain number of entries
gawk: change 5th element on every other line
how to remove trailing \n inside awk 
how to remove trailing \n inside awk 
how to remove trailing \n inside awk 
bash/awk append next line if the columns is less than 4
doing math on the linux 
how to increment array dynamically with 'awk'?
how to aggregate counts in a bash one-liner
how to sort,uniq and display line that appear more than x times
count the frequency of a number in a file with awk
count the repetitions of an element from a file with awk
find common values in multiple in awk
bash: compare related entries in multiple files
combine frequency lists with awk
how to find single entries in a txt file?
how to delete duplicated rows based in a column value?
awk: words frequency from one text file, how to ouput into myfile.txt?
awk: words frequency from one text file, how to ouput into myfile.txt?
awk: what wrong with cjk characters? #korean
using awk to average specified rows
how to sum values in a column grouped by values in the other
adding common names in the column - awk
grep, sort column form files
merging two files into one based on the first column
bash merge multiple lines
parse log file and print the number of log entries per second
uniq first field without discarding the content of duplicated lines
merge files with scientific notation data in the first column and how to use uniq
how to aggregate counts in a bash one-liner
merge filea and fileb with difficult field separator using bash/awk
why does awk not treat this array index as a number unless i use int()?
count the total number of residues in a text file
count the total number of residues in a text file
apache logs: count top 10 urls by bytes served
count the number of rows with similar colunms values
sum numbers from one column when string in second column repeats
awk - print last 4 lines of the file
awk to average over columns from multiple files
bash (sed/awk?) find line in file and print stuff 3 lines above?
find unique string within a file, up a line and append?
'awk' version of this python code?
awk associative array with pattern as index
awk repeat the values of a column n times
reversing groups of lines 
reversing groups of lines 
reversing groups of lines 
grouping numbers by intervals: i have an array of numbers between 0.0-3.6
bash shell display first part of file using bsd head
how can i display the single quote inside awk
how can i display the single quote inside awk
how can i display the single quote inside awk
bash script - recursive find of new lines and carriage returns at end of files
how to split a string into several lines while keeping a prefix?
unix: replace newline w/ colon, preserving newline before eof
awk: one liner to calculate rounded average of two columns
add a character c in a column if that column is blank
copy a four digit number and past at the end of each line with text before it
copy a four digit number and past at the end of each line with text before it
awking multiple times in a shell script file
awk array assistance needed - averaging
simple aggregation using linux scripting
bash add up columns with same first column
summation or sorting
grep unique occurrences
search for a string , and add if it matches
how to use regular expression in sed command
search and replace with shell script
awk: if total number of lines is greater print file
how to list all files and put number in front of them , using shell
setting a bash environment variable directly in awk (in an awk one-liner)
awk - counting and printing different patterns
want to alter field separator to allow spaces in particular data field
how do i create a sub arrary in awk?
awk can't get my for i loop to work
sed remove line containing a string and nothing but; automation using for loop
linux commands: how to sort a file based on differences between columns?
removing all duplicate entries in a field
using the first field in awk as file name
using the first field in awk as file name
how to use awk in this situation
running awk within a bash script
unix - split to n files using regexp to name destination file
why doesn't this awk script see the shell variable?
repeat each line into new one
sed to add blanks in every line
combining fields in awk
awk: how to filter out a row that all entries (16 columns) are 0
changing the case of a string with awk
awk rounding floating number
awk - how to improve this example with gsub?
removing chunks of lines with sed
how to select some columns with awk?
awk - print a field n number of fields away from a matched field
break in awk doesn't work
linux: columns values check in a file
awk equivalent of cut -f2-
put rows of numbers into a column with shell script
multiply every nth field...elegantly
awk - print last 4 lines of the file
redirect stdout to script, so it can be parsed and then sent to stdout
how to use awk with a for loop?
copy lines by rows in awk
copy lines by rows in awk
bash - awk sort -n not sorting
bash - awk sort -n not sorting
bash - awk sort -n not sorting
how to use awk command to cut field?
start with 11th word until character '-' is found by using awk command 
comparing all the values of a column if condition is met
how to add 0 digit to a single symbol hex value where it is missed, bash
linux: extract one word after a specific word on the same line
printing a column after a specific pattern from a text file
how to replace a string and number with the same string and random number using sed/awk?
search and find position in large txt file
counting number a certain word per line in a file
extract multiple fields that contain specific words
extract unique characters from different files in utf-8
print $i unles $i is less than 10. using awk or otherwise
find specific tet and print it to same column - awk,sed
file formatting : confusion using awk nr variable
how to get match regex pattern using awk from file?
bash decrease all integers in delimited file by one
substitute text between specific strings
awk: printing undetermined number of columns
gsub issue with awk (gawk)
sed / awk - remove all but a specific matching pattern from a file
awk - removal of the same fields on the basis of the "$1"
how do i pipe the last command in my command history to clipboard?
how to print every 4th column up to nth column and from (n+1)th column to last using awk?
print all but the first three columns
combining columns within a single file using awk
how can i write in nth column of a file in awk?
calculate difference of numbers in two files
two file numeric comparison in awk
how to replace special characters 
printing all matches in a line using regular expression in awk
sed replace pattern with line number
regexp on nmap services file
how to replace special characters 
sed : sustitute char "a" in a portion of a string and keep it in other portions
delete single character rows in a text file
how to change upper case to lower case using find and awk and regular expressions
how to extract file name from file list?
cut particular parts from a line 
cut particular parts from a line 
awk: splitting a string into pieces
how to insert whitespace between characters of words in a specific field in a file
delete strings from text file
removing last character of each column
how to extract filename from path using sed or awk
shell and text manipulation: marking the ends of sentences and controlling space between paragraphs
how to remove a specific letter within the word of each line of a file
add numerical order to matching occurrences
how to use the name of the input file in sed replace
awk : replacing number by number of repetitions
how can i extract all conversations in a postfix log from a particular client using awk?
mapping a string to a unique number?
awk printing against the condition
how to concatenate lines from the same paragraph ?
linux script: how to split a text into different files with match pattern
awk + one line awk syntax to print only once the second field if "true" word matched
extract the last column from a tab separated file
awk if first field occurs multiple times comma separate second field
comparing consecutive rows in awk
remove numerical values which are lesser than preceding value
remove numerical values which are lesser than preceding value
merging files 
awk for multiple patterns
awk nr lookup with variable gives extra output
help with duplicating rows based on a field using awk
print lines after uniq with column condition
awk or statement
awk act as a substitution
include first line with awk and set output based on filename
change value on 11th column based on 9th column using sed
grepping only certain lines of files
remove lines from awk output
awk script to print line with the largest number of fields
min and max coordinates for same values in different column
remove lf from the last line in file
sed & awk print entries in a file on one line
syntax error with awk
linux delete line do not delete maximum value
moving lines with a duplicate column from a file
remove trailing whitespace recursively only at end of file using grep/sed?
need awk script for some xml node concat
emulate sas' datastep statement first using linux  tools
how do i find the contents of a line by matching the column number?
uniq element extraction
easy solution to a complex task
how to search a tag value of xml file ?
change " leftanglebrc path rightanglebrc " value with different string depends on last line
how to make awk add correctly when commas are used as digit group separators
how to make awk add correctly when commas are used as digit group separators
is it possible to print different lines to different output files using awk
awk add one more column is 3rd column equals string
remove duplicate based on condition awk/bash
awk how to read this requirement into an array?
how to add blank line between lines from different groups
linux differences between consecutive lines
organize input data as a 3d configuration
delete lines from file -- awk
getting job downtime in a logfile if it has a duplicate
awk: create list of destination ports seen for each source ip from a bro log (conn.log)
bash script to find unique value in a file with index
bash script to find unique value in a file with index
how to join first n lines in a file
replace line feeds with sed in a certain range of line
how i can remove double lines in whole file, omiting first n characters in each line?
modify existing code for creating menu names in an interactive shell script
awk only prints (0, 1) if pattern, but i want to print the pattern
cut and awk command 
linux: sum of maximums of each row
shell script count string occurrence
how to count number of forked (sub-?)processes
how to join first n lines in a file
awk sed help needed to create a file
working with bc
convert list of pairs to a table  without using awk
reading filenames from a file and moving files from one location to other 
libsvm automated labeller script
quick help on bash script to remove lines of a big file
awk to multiply all numbers in a text file by a constant subject to another constraint
awk to multiply all numbers in a text file by a constant subject to another constraint
unix shell-scripting: split a textfile by its entries
use an awk loop to subset a file
extract lines with specific patterns in separate files
split input into multiple outputs based on content?
chomping file down
print output to 2 seperate column 
error in sed command
how to put punctuation quotation in awk command?
is it possible to add an empty column with no values in the beginning of a .csv file?
string substitution from text file to another string
sed to insert characters in a specific column
executing a piped command in a subshell doesn't work if the command is in a variable
print record number with a prefix
add expr within awk
bash loops: how to execute once, then move to the next iteration
awk syntax for enclosing {}
counting the occurrences of a field on a individual line
how can i prepend a string to the beginning of each line in a file?
case-sensitive replace of known words with sed
awk script not listing specific column
awk last argument before nf?
printing first word in every line of a txt file unix bash
how to print last two columns using awk
print second last column/field in awk
unix - extract a word from a string
bash: grab part of string from a  output
linux shell command to reverse the field order of varying length text records
help with selecting rows using awk
split file into multiple according to variable content
unable to filter the first row in terminal by awk
command with combined behavior of both `sort -n -u -k` and `uniq -c`
separate the single file into many based upon a column value
append text to file without line breaking
adding new column using awk command adds the whole content to the last?
how to extract the integer or decimal at beginning of each input line, using linux/unix utilities?
how to create file with list of duplicate values using linux shell?
append text to file without line breaking
bash command to sum and print each element of a column and print a new column
how to append some command output at the end of each line in a vi file?
partitioned running total in a text file
count the number of occurances of a specific char by awk or grep
how to prevent new line when using awk
calculating sum of all numbers in a line and printing the output to a separate file
how to prevent new line when using awk
combine file names and content
strtonum in awk causes the values to lose precision
moving the second column to first column using awk
how can i compare 3 files together (to see what is in common between them)?
deleting entire culumns of from a text file using cut command or awk program
how to join two id's into a single column?
what is the easiest way to join 12 columns?
why awk arithmetic doesn't work?
awk or sed to extract words
how to restrict length of string present in a line using linux
linux command to remove a column, add id column and add another extra column unix/linux awk
tab character  giving different width
simple awk command issue (fs, ofs related)
simple awk command issue (fs, ofs related)
linux top -b show specific columns only
sorting alphabetically 
say my input file is table delimited, how do i get the class name and the executable time using awk
awk column minus a constant
xargs to concatenate extension onto an argument
bash script, !=: command not found
how to use awk command to cut field?
cut or awk command to print first string of first row
how to assign multiple field into a variable?
linux bc command total counts
cut command not working on linux
store output from command in variable . the output is being run instead of stored
splitting a text file into 2 equal halves
make awk interpret one line at a time from variable
how can i get the parent script's name?
creating a script which finds two alternating patterns
how to fetch ip address from a log file?
create a new file based on matching between two files
how to run grep inside awk?
bash script to read/ping a list of ip addresses from a text file and then write the results to another file?
elegant way to reverse column order
select row and element in awk
how do i store the output of a bash command in a variable?
how to parse file  script
extract a column from many files and paste together in a single file
how to cut and overwrite a certain section from a file bash
unix - extract a word from a string
linux - get text from second tab
word frequency tally script is too slow
grep or sed for word containing string
is there an easy way to calculate quantiles with bash?
computing differences between columns of tab delimited file
for cycle for deduct colomns
generating a directory listing as webserver index page 
get the core id of a running bash script
bash disagrees with my pipes, refuses to do the full command
get specific value from line , bash script
how to get requred field from file on linux?
linux-shell: renaming files to creation time
simple filtering with `grep` , `awk`, `sed` or whatever else that's capable
which tool should i use to extract data from string?
how to assign the output of a command to a variable?
how to display only the last field?
awk - print only first line of duplicates and the line below it
editing text using awk or sed 
ubuntu linux command extract substring inside
bash command to pinpoint location in a .txt file
awk greater than less than but within a set range
how to subtract a constant number from a column
how to add a prefix for each line according to a line field
tweaking awk to print different things when a regular expression is or isn't matched
shell script numbering lines in a file
shell script numbering lines in a file
loop that prepends the filename to the beginning of each line in a tab separated file (thus generating a new column))
loop that prepends the filename to the beginning of each line in a tab separated file (thus generating a new column))
sort lines according to number of fields in each line
using parallel awk - has anyone heard of this?
print line numbers starting at zero using awk
replace the match itself, not the wild card, using awk gsub or generic regular expressions
count number of occurrence at each line
how to count "|" in a csv file through awk command?
how to count "|" in a csv file through awk command?
unexpected token error:awk
how to count number of tabs in each line using shell script?
how to set input into integer form ?
awk: output to different processes
convert milliseconds timestamp to date from unix 
how to process only one column and convert unix time in text file 
print first 80 char in a line  pipe
i need to delete string from position x to position y on each line in a text file
using awk to print characters of specific index on a line
extract string from rows using awk based on string value
replace negative numbers with zero?
forcing the order of output fields from cut command
help with duplicating rows based on a field using awk
using shell to draw a table of information
use awk to convert bytes to kbytes in network output
bash: evaluate a mathematical term?
serialize data in file
awk script for substracting from the above field
awk change decimal formats
how to remove all single occurring new lines "\n" but not multiple lines
list 3rd column of a file with spaces only
how to remove all single occurring new lines "\n" but not multiple lines
how to gather ip and user agent info from web log with awk?
sed/awk  script
sed & awk print entries in a file on one line
remove lf from the last line in file
join broken sql statements
join broken sql statements
remove new line if next line does not begin with an expression
unix : how to add double quotes to a word?
how can i output null-terminated strings in awk?
reserve space for a particular position in all rows of a file through unix shell script
include a file to an executable script, grab line 1 and line 2, assign them to data_holders
print all but select fields in awk
linux-change line between two awk scripts
shell script to trim characters after a particular length from 1st word of every line
rearrange data into specified row lengths
unix: replace newline w/ colon, preserving newline before eof
counts of various elements in various files
how to sort tab format file based on length of column k
adding columns with awk. what is wrong with this awk command?
awk math - getting natural numbers
how to convert rows into column using awk?
how to convert rows into column using awk?
ip address and country on same line with awk
how can i merge two specific lines with sed?
replacing char with single quote using tr ing
replacing char with single quote using tr ing
what is the fastest way to autobreak a line of gigabytes seperated by keywords using bash shell?
how to insert a character after a blank line
merge data based on column match
how to set fs to eof?
how to calculate specific field for similar datalines in multiple files?
how to get average ratio from an output file
shell command to sum integers, one per line?
sum of every n lines ; awk
awk to average over columns from multiple files
converting a file's indentation from tabs to spaces
merge multiple csv files awk column-wise, no match
unix command to output line containing between digits
get the latest line using shell script
remove rows in a csv which has a specific entry in one column and entries in other columns are repeated
inserting sequential numbers and line numbers for certain lines
gnu less -n starting with a different line?
gnu less -n starting with a different line?
awk case insensitive and boolean operator
removing lines and columns with all zeros
using a user defined bash function in xargs
using a user defined bash function in xargs
gawk command in matching data
how to write awk command to group line data and dump to file
extracting whole line in awk if condition using cut -d
selecting lines according certain criteria
selecting lines according certain criteria
how to remove first comma on each line in a file
bash dateformat  leftsquarebrc date rightsquarebrc t leftsquarebrc time rightsquarebrc z to normal datetime
delete specific words + symbol 
regex to modificate domino http log to common format for piwik import
using sed to delete node and data from xml file
select all text in a word, except first letter
awk: how to delete first and last value on entire column
edit a column of strings in whitespace delimited data using command substitution and bash utilities
awk - how to add a full stop?
adding leading zero in a specific field from a text file with regex
linux bash: how to replace 2 words in a file from bash 
strip out value from return using awk
how to read the first (and only) line of a file, split it into separate strings and append it to variables using csh?
how to read the first (and only) line of a file, split it into separate strings and append it to variables using csh?
escape character "\" not working in awk with $
removing last character of each column
count the occurance of a field given a value of another field
wrong formatting when using print in awk
modifying text files with awk or sed or both (again)
incorporate variables into bash code line
remove ^m from text file
how to print all columns but last 2?
add text to specific text line
linux shell script read columns into variable and then add the attribute
how do i sum together file sizes , grouping together the results by date?
awk: how to read columnwise file to awk-script ?
awk: how to read columnwise file to awk-script ?
awk: how to read columnwise file to awk-script ?
sum occurrence output of uniq -c
awk: how to reuse a result nr-times without removing end?
adding integers from multiple lines in a file
how to use stat command inside awk
use pstree inside awk command
xargs to concatenate extension onto an argument
xargs to concatenate extension onto an argument
how to touch files per each counting in loop ?
call a shell command from inside awk and pass some awk variables to the shell command
awk - print only first line of duplicates and the line below it
swap two columns with awk
sed move first to end
doubts about bash script efficiency
counting trailing white spaces
limiting sed to the first 10 characters of a line
what's the quickest way to get the mean of a set of numbers from the ?
correctly use variable in awk script
bash get first word last line
bash parsing of sectioned output of a command for specific lines
sed join lines together
assigning a variable on each line in a quick awk command
sum values for similar lines using awk
sum same column across multiple files using awk ?
awk file separation using delimiters
group of columns in awk
count decade occurrences
awk for a fortran output
shell script, split string into everything before and after the last whitespace character
awk syntax error - what's causing it?
which is the simple and fast unix command to print all lines from the last occurrence of a pattern?
string manipulation within file column 
how to print using awk  the text from many files in different ways (by the file name position in argc)?
merge overlapping coordinate in a table
passing a shell script as user-data in amazon aws ec2 request-spot-instances
how to get public ip addresses of all nodes in an amazon ec2 cluster?
using jq to parse json output of aws cli
vagrant rsync error before provisioning
split string on a backslash ("\") delimiter in awk?
awk - how to get only the matching portion of a regex
quotes in quotes in quotes in a "linux" shell
filter input to remove certain characters/strings
matching word pattern through regex
passing arguments with spaces between (bash) script
floating point rounding 
floating point rounding 
setting default with getopts 
conditional programming with file attributes (batch files)
preserve bash completion for all commands that are prepended by a custom command
detecting program errors  scripts?
shell scripting - io redirecting - precedence of operators
shell scripting - io redirecting - precedence of operators
set two instance variables and show in console -  tool - (not working)
set two instance variables and show in console -  tool - (not working)
bash functions - create a variable with parameter's label
how to base64 encode /dev/random or /dev/urandom?
how to base64 encode /dev/random or /dev/urandom?
how to base64 encode image  bash / shell
error while uploading image on imgur via curl
bash scripting: how to find the absolute path of "symlink/.."?
can these two bash commands be joined into one?
finding file extension given root name of fie
bash recursive capturing of commands output
bash: find the name of the interpreter
how do i know the script file name in a bash script?
bash: how to properly get basename into a string?
shell script templates
basename with spaces in a bash script?
parsing arguments from  for shell script
bash basename syntax
unable to call a stored variable 
understanding a shell script code using expand function
shell string bad substitution
recover after bash trap
take the last part of the folder path 
joining twin files (with the same name but different extensions)  script
concatenation  and use of 'basename'
shell script: for loop unexpected output
how do i put basename into a variable?
how do i put basename into a variable?
what is the best way to do string manipulation in a shell script?
what is the best way to do string manipulation in a shell script?
bash script mv and restore to original location with log
how send file to ftp server to the same name?
syntax error executing regex on bash
how to parse out the end of a path in a unix shell script?
is there a 'better' way to find a list of files in a directory tree
getting parent's directory name by piping the results of dirname to basename in a bash script
how to cut base path using regex
extract the last directory of a pwd output
xargs inconsistent behavior and -n1 parameter
expr / awk / sed: get git directory name from repo url
issue when using xquery external variables from the  in basex
issue when using xquery external variables from the  in basex
how to read user input when script is piped to shell?
execute bash script from url
why wont bash wait for read when used with curl?
run bash script curled from the web
bash script "read" not pausing for user input when executed from ssh shell
pid consistency between c++ and $! variable 
making a bash script switch to interactive mode and give a prompt
bash : reset / reloading bash, completely (alias and function)
how to create in all subfolders of a given directory subfolder with given name
running a rake file via a bash script fired by a crontab
cygwin + console2: running cygw with startup dir
cygwin + console2: running cygw with startup dir
how to start a shell without any user configuration?
start bash process with changed prompt ps1
make bash run a command right after it starts and then stay in this session?
run bash command in new shell and stay in new shell after this command executes
bash 4 associative arrays: error "declare: -a: invalid option"
glob pattern  don't recognize '('
using bash -c and globbing
using brackets/parantheses inside shell scripts vs using them from the  bash
why is this slash needed?
bash: how to execute a line from a file?
php command in script has different results than shell
bash su with parameters in init script
bash inserting quotes into string before execution
bash, use export and run export in single script
glob pattern  don't recognize '('
double quotes inside double quotes 
double quotes inside double quotes 
double quotes inside double quotes 
double quotes inside double quotes 
disabling hanging script
rename files and directories using substitution and variables
how to read and modify this bash script to check for 2 arguments instead of 1?
how can i start the gnome-terminal with multiple tabs with always the same title and history?
how can i start the gnome-terminal with multiple tabs with always the same title and history?
invoke bash, run commands inside new shell, then give control back to user
bash - redirecting of stdoutput and stderror does not catch all output
using child process id in arguments to child, especially log file
bash read arguments as commands
how to escape apostrophe in a db2 sql query, running within a shell script?
what is an easy way to do a sorted diff between two files?
dealing with single quotes in file paths as returned by find
about shell and subshell
assign the result of a mathematical calculation to a variable without a subshell
perform an operation for *each* item listed by grep
is it possible to access the value associated with the "-c" parameter from a bash script?
can't read my environment variable in my nodejs app
how can i make a hybrid bash/tcsh script on linux?
using bash -c with loops and standard output redirection
using bash -c with loops and standard output redirection
how to convert to a zero byte file?
i got to clarify what is /bin/sh/ -c !
using find in a directory in node.js
using find in a directory in node.js
how to run a pkill when invoking a shell to execute a string of commands?
how to run a pkill when invoking a shell to execute a string of commands?
bash read line vs read -n line
how to get pid of the process that run in background exec by shell in php
source bash script  -c ""
output list of pdf files as one pdf using pdftk bash script
bash: run a script with set -e (errexit)
automatic exit from bash shell script on error
why return statement in function will cause the bash script end
how to run php script on server through 
determining where a bash function was defined
unexpected end of file in a bash script?
how do i check syntax  without running the script?
find out where an environment variable was last set 
find out where an environment variable was last set 
ftp shell script not working with cronjob
shell script: if statement
an issue with my dob sorting script
grep across the file system has no output in a shell script
why is the following parameter in a bash script not working properly?
make a simple pie graph using bash shell script
how to use a variable from `read` as an argument to another program?
bash: print each command before executing?
how to execute a mysql command from a shell script?
store command to file
how can i stop a background-process started from bash after the next command finished?
clonezilla custom-ocs bash script failing on ocs-onthefly command
getting bash script to echo the command being executed
bash script doesn't finish
how to pass value to read variable with pipe (stdin) 
does bash have a way to get verbose output about expression evaluation?
expression not getting evaluated 
pass parameters from the  
how to run .profile inside a shell script in ubuntu
odd behavior with simple bash shellscript exit
export /etc/environment variables to current environment; from a shell script?
testing if a daemon is alive or not with shell
how display color message from bash script?
incorrect exit on bash script
find a line in a file and add something to the end of the line 
how to run bash script in my android?
how to read user input when script is piped to shell?
sudo bashfile makes syntax error
shell script won't run from java program
running a script from another script
bash script catch other subscript output
bash script containing binary executable
bash case statement: retrieve list of valid options?
new to bash. can't pass arguments to the bash script
prevent parameter propagation
bash script to create customized thumbnails
pass multiple arguments to bash script
execute each line of output 
bash/batch multiple file, single folder, incrimental rename script; user provided filename prefix parameter
bash script to copy specific set of files
getting retrieving exact input to bash from 
how to kill a single background process 
loop through column then row
bash: the run-command to the result header
pipe all bash output to a script?
using sed to replace text in a template file with variable containing quotes
why does using  leftanglebrc () in a shell script cause a syntax error?
how to save stderr and stdout of a pipeline on a file?
how to save stderr and stdout of a pipeline on a file?
how to run a .sh-script in an unix console/mac terminal?
how can i define a bash alias as a sequence of multiple commands?
shell scripting: how to pick value of an expression from each line of a file
bash script - can't get for loop working
how to format a number , possibly with printf?
coloring terminal with shell script
run typescript compiler from shell command - permission denied
run multiple shell scripts in a single script
shell script and  discrepancies
how to run .sh file on windows 7 through cygwin?
unix script - first letters of a string
getopts no argument provided
getopts no argument provided
bash variable substition fails. do i need to enable a switch?
how to read and modify this bash script to check for 2 arguments instead of 1?
shell script to loop through wildcard matched directories
how do i split string contain parentheses into array and remain the substring in parentheses 
rsync using shopt globstar and **/. - how to exclude directories?
bash | syntax error when running script on a different computer?
automatic rvm installation
how to pass value to read variable with pipe (stdin) 
bash: search up a directory tree
bash menu one answer to change ip in multiple files
grep multiple bash parameters
write output of bash script to file with date
replacing file name and content : shell script
run inotifywait on background
formatting output  or awk
find a number of a file in a range of numbers of another file
what is happening behind bash forward process substitution?
bash script to remove lines containing any of a list of words
bash script to remove lines containing any of a list of words
is it possible to remove error messages from bash
shell issue: alias doesn't expand
equivalent of .bat 
how to expand shell variables in a text file?
writing a for loop  using a variable
./sysroot.sh: operation not permitted
create a parameter to find files starting with a specific letter 
awk script for search in a fasta file
how to call php file from a shell script file
diff script error
shell script: correct way to declare an empty array
list all directories with spaces in their name
get substring from start index to end index
bash prevent symbol expansion when reading from stdin
why return statement in function will cause the bash script end
bash parallel processes in netcat -c
bash parallel processes in netcat -c
small sh script to log processes ram and cpu usage
executing a custom init script  --login -i for example to change to a custom directory from a shortcut
bash bc calculator evaluation, multiple conditions with not evaluations
creating an installation bash script with the python csv module
run bash commande by ssh using java
bash:python3.3 no such file or directory
bash shell - the : command
is there a way to determine the pure functions?
how to make a function readonly
 leftsquarebrc : -gt: unary operator expected
how to catch missing argument in function mistake?
using chmod command 
using chmod command 
ghostscript batch mode?
regular expressions to segregate between good words and bad ones
bash - refer to parameters using variable
negative number  scripting
what does " leftanglebrc  leftanglebrc  leftanglebrc " mean on a bash ? and where is it documented?
how to draw a graph from text file ?
bash script using negative to cycle through
limit the amount of decimal places in bc
bash: how to calculate?
filesize calculation 
is there a command to restart computer into safe mode?
is there a command to restart computer into safe mode?
is there a command to restart computer into safe mode?
format datetime fields in bcp output files in sybase ase (or with sed)
how to assign text following command to a variable 
import dumb files into mysql5.1 in windows
binary file in npm package
how to run "bundle exec" from a specific ruby version using rvm when shell environment is not there
pass input and output files desired path to a binary 
hadoop mapreduce multiple input files
passing in arguments to a called script
is there any way to supply stdin/out instead of a file to a program ?
binary file in npm package
how to change makefile from making executable to make a shared library
bash bind command
bash bind command
copy current command at bash prompt to clipboard
how to bind the 'enter key'
tab autocompletion  vi shell mode
bash autocomplete ubuntu list all rather than cycle
automatically timing every executed command and show  prompt?
custom readline functions line?
is there any shortcut/combo for "cd .." ?
elegant and efficient way to start gui programs from terminal without spamming it (bash or any posix shell)
, how do i bind a function key to a command?
, how do i bind a function key to a command?
, how do i bind a function key to a command?
, how to make control-delete mean kill-word?
bash - how to use arguments from previous command?
how to bind the 'enter key'
bash: call script with customized keyboard shortcuts?
bash: call script with customized keyboard shortcuts?
bash: call script with customized keyboard shortcuts?
bash: call script with customized keyboard shortcuts?
how do i make bash' tab complete automatically cycle through options osx
how to bind the 'enter key'
name of linux shell command mapped to a given keyboard shortcut?
how to print a series of words using awk?
left key exit insert mode line
cannot type 'e' or 'p' in mingw/msys shells or terminals
tab autocompletion  vi shell mode
how to reset terminal without losing the current command?
start emacs  when started form shell
, how do i bind a function key to a command?
moving to previous region in *nix screen
elegant and efficient way to start gui programs from terminal without spamming it (bash or any posix shell)
tweaking bash 'cd' and tab completion to recognize spelling mistakes
bash completion - how to get rid of unneeded tab presses?
automate sequence of keys to recover a stuck ssh session
how to create panes that's won't be destroyed when i quit the command that it's running inside?
rbenv in production triggering mongodb connection error
backward search in vi-mode
enable zsh using 8th bit as meta without warning
up-arrow key to search for 2 words given with zsh shell
how can i configure the "delete" key to delete a word in c shell
unable to make a backward tab as shift-tab in zsh
in zsh how do you bind ctrl+backspace to delete the previous word?
moving a word forward in z shell
which shortcut in zsh does the same as ctrl-u ?
reverse incremental search in cshell
zsh: how to get back 'unexpanded' command
zsh: how to backspace through to the previous line?
zsh: how do i set autocomplete so that it inserts the completion when cursor is between text?
perl not printing special characters in command prompt
how do i check for an error  with -e
bash script: execute a command and pass its output to awk
sed wildcard substitution
how can i use the platform lsf blaunch command to start processes simultaneously?
how can i use the platform lsf blaunch command to start processes simultaneously?
how to write the following windows batch script in mac and linux counterparts?
blkid not giving output  when run in file
correctly finding disk size on hosts on mixed setup of hosts
bash "inline" conditionals
sed script to print the first three words in each line
bash - what does _(){ _|_&}; _ do?
sed move text to beginning of line?
correct way to use getopt/long_getopt
why is an extra file being created in for loop of batch program?
ack commad not found error
run spell-check on multiple files and display any incorrect words 
homebrew's `git` not using completion
using sed on a string that contains reg expressions
pip bash completion not working on mac os x
how to update node.js and coffeescript version via terminal on mac?
getting redis up an running with ruby
find os number of updates available
error while installing jekyll on mac osx 10.8.2
how do i launch a url in firefox in the background from ubuntu ?
tar --excludes option to exclude only the directory at current working directory, not subdirectories
foreach: grep backtick in for-loop
how to execute shell script from hubot
linux architecture environment variable or definition?
bash: override echo to print a custom prefix in a script
wrap/overwrite function 
how to enable or disable multiple "echo statements"  ecript
run bundle install as a background process
load gems inside scripts run from the shell outside our rails application directory?
sound notification in ubuntu terminal
cd in pipe after getting folder path
what does the "-;" mean at the end of a bash statement?
regexps: match a word that starts with a character using negation
why doesn't the pipe command work for me?
how to create tar that gets updated for 2 weeks
unzip a single file in a tbz archive
interpret a hudson job as successful even though one of the invoked programs fails
interpret a hudson job as successful even though one of the invoked programs fails
quick and easy way to generate a tarball from a bazaar checkout
linux shell-script and recursion, variable not retaining value
how to print un join lines using join command or awk?
awk : ensure only one blank line after the output block
awk : ensure only one blank line after the output block
i want to delete a string from each line in a file
i want to delete a string from each line in a file
i want to delete a string from each line in a file
repeat function with different arguments if one variable within the function is empty
android emulator: where to write  "emulator.exe -avd -dns-server?"
logging output of console application to a text file and console window at the same time
cygw -c yields different argc depending on whether the command start with c:/ or something else
how do i run  "explorer /n, /select,(filename)" in c++ builder?
what is the correct batch file syntax?
what is the correct batch file syntax?
advanced installer setup.exe -  switch to uninstall package
what is the winrar  archive file
variable data in ghostscript commandline
using  to copy txt of many files and create new txt with all text
using  to copy txt of many files and create new txt with all text
how do i run  "explorer /n, /select,(filename)" in c++ builder?
execute shell commands from program running in wine
from cmd, log into bash and run command in one line
is it possible to pass command-line arguments to an executable via an associated file?
c# loading a file from a ?
how do i recognize command-line parameters in my delphi program?
where is oracle sqlplus located?
where is oracle sqlplus located?
how can i create batch file to run a command?
running cakephp shell script
extract header if pattern in a column matches
how to redirect grep output to a variable?
unix cal command special character
unix cal command special character
unix cal command special character
'calc' in while loop causes undefined variable error  script
how to group bash command into one function?
environment variable of visual studio path?
environment variable of visual studio path?
how to create a batch file for visual studio command prompt
what is wrong with this recursive windows cmd script? it won't do ackermann properly
what is wrong with this recursive windows cmd script? it won't do ackermann properly
how to run a script at the start of the visual studio command-line tool?
using command prompt to call a batch file in a sub-directory
bat file will not start another bat file after ant command
parse the output of a command only when it's an error, and only with native batch commands
parse the output of a command only when it's an error, and only with native batch commands
how to comment sh scripts in make
syntax error near unexpected token `do'
script that create desktop links on windows?
running command-line in batch file
canonicalize a path name on solaris
how to get the nth positional argument ?
bash: command not found capify . rvm, mac 10.8.4
how to write multiple environment environment variables in one line?
how to write multiple environment environment variables in one line?
how to write multiple environment environment variables in one line?
how to write multiple environment environment variables in one line?
bash: command not found capify . rvm, mac 10.8.4
how do i fix sed group capturing for unnesting a latex code section?
how can i get user input via ?
terminal passing arguments from variable containing whitespace
xcode/bash: trying to redirect piped content to a file
unix: how can i read multiple lines?
log rotating with a bash script
how do i make a bash script terminate on new line
send string to stdin
2-way communication with background process (i/o)
2-way communication with background process (i/o)
why can't i interact with redis-cli via fabric?
why is my pipe  getting stuck?
writing in file through shell script without using echo commmand
bash: trick program into thinking stdout is an interactive terminal
/usr/bin/w cuts long lines when redirected to file or pipe
how to use 'coproc' to interact with another command driven program
significance of echo start|cat rightanglebrc  rightanglebrc log 
bash: capture output of command run in background
how do i quickly create small files on the bash ?
bash read file into script
bash script not getting piped data
why when redirecting variable to stdin variable must be in double quotes?
`cat & wait` in a script proceeds immediately
bash-- rightanglebrc batch + colon and back/forward-slash use
disabling foreign key checks on the 
how to pass 'yes' to python manage.py flush?
how to pass 'yes' to python manage.py flush?
bash variable at execution time
how to concatenate stdin in to a pipe?
how to move all lines containing at least one matching phrase to the end of the file?
posix "sort -n" alpha characters between zero and 1?
how do i append some text to pipe without temporary file
how do i append some text to pipe without temporary file
append csv files one by one in numeric order using bash shell script
how can i run a curl command for each line of output from my perl script?
append csv files one by one in numeric order using bash shell script
how to read file from another file
how can i display a text file within a bash script?
bash fails to parse quoted string output from backtic expression
bash expression evaluation order on 
terminal find, directories last instead of first
bash: cat multiple files from list of files
linux + what the best way to merge files
linux + what the best way to merge files
shell - saving contents of file to variable then outputting the variable
using a pipe to read a file, run script and write to the same file
better way in python
run cat command for all the files in the directory given in argument of the script file and out put with the name given as second argument
bash script that adds quantities by categories
how do make dependency generation work for c? (also..decode this sed/make statement!)
how do make dependency generation work for c? (also..decode this sed/make statement!)
bash append file contents to the bottom of existing file
filter lines by pattern  script
emailing scripts
bash: create multiple users from text file
reading a string from file
rvm is not being used by ubuntu launcher
how to split mailbox into single file per message?
nested backticks  script not working
problems with grep command  script
preserving leading white space while reading rightanglebrc  rightanglebrc writing a file line by line 
apply the same bash script to multiple folders?
bash: concatenate multiple files and add "\newline" between each?
bash: concatenate multiple files and add "\newline" between each?
parse an email message for sender name 
sed randomly returning empty string
(unix shell scripting) trim last 3 characters of a line without using sed, or perl, etc
(unix shell scripting) trim last 3 characters of a line without using sed, or perl, etc
how to clean csv by another csv while in a 'for' loop?
find the number of entries in a file and remove those enties using a shell script
unix shell to prompt user for filename
change bash variable via perl
my custom init shell script stops deployment script
how to use a pipe in a foreach statement
moving the contents of one file to another file
outputting the contents of files with an extra line break in between each
wget download not completing all pages
bash script command not found
what does the "done  leftanglebrc  $var" at the end of a loop do?
changing a value in a file using awk
unix ksh loop and put the result into variable
bash grep finding java declarations
shell scripting and use of gawk along with arithmetic operations
how to open all files in a directory in bourne shell script?
using bash wildcards with prefix
modifying a shell variable in a while loop does not work as expected
shell append order ( rightanglebrc  rightanglebrc )
optimize shell one liner
write a report of what the shell would done
to continuously loop using for ing
double quotes inside quotes 
bash script to find a file in directory tree and append it to another file
regarding unix grep command
summing contents of a field - bash
bash: variable in file path
results of awk command different when executed from a tty versus a script
parse an email message for sender name 
, if i have a bunch of text files is there a simple script to merge them into one file?
concatenating many email files with unix utils
concatenating many email files with unix utils
how to display or append several files in a terminal using shell script?
merge all files in a directory into one using bash
merge all files in a directory into one using bash
bash shell scripting combining *.txt into one file
bash shell scripting combining *.txt into one file
run spell-check on multiple files and display any incorrect words 
finding all kinds of extensions referenced in a html file
how to aggregate counts in a bash one-liner
viewing file's content for each file-name apearing in a list
bash - secure scripts
diff - difference in files
sed and grep get the line number for a match
how to list all files and put number in front of them , using shell
repeat function with different arguments if one variable within the function is empty
getting a part of the output from a sed command
most compatible method for reading a file line-by-line in reverse
sed and grep get the line number for a match
return all lines that match string1 in a file after the last matching string2 in the same file
how to crop(cut) text files based on starting and ending line-numbers in cygwin?
compare $1 with another string 
awk overwrites $nf.... with some input files
import csv line break woes
bash tarball script exiting with failure
why the variable is cut while reading a file?
replacing control character in sed
cat command  script
cannot assign variable 
unexpected output from bash script when ran as cgi in apache and not when ran via . how to reproduce the apache-only bug?
linux command ambiguous redirect
linux command ambiguous redirect
linux command ambiguous redirect
problems in sending input to detached 'screen' via readreg and paste
piping bash input arguments in egrep's regular expression
awk: process input from pipe, insert result before pattern in output file
how to extract and chop version string from file 
why isn't uniq working on this big file? bash
dialog  is not grabbing variables correctly
how to rsync files with --files-from with quantifier?
how to empty ("truncate") a file on linux that already exists and is protected in someway?
how to empty ("truncate") a file on linux that already exists and is protected in someway?
how to base64 encode /dev/random or /dev/urandom?
generate a random filename 
generate a random filename 
generate random password for postgresql 
bash script to read usb ups status
awk print value without quote sign
linux version check linux command or a java code
bash: grep pattern from command output
awk command help
determine shells of all users whether it is login or non log
use every line from cat command output as a file for (ls -l file)
how to get unique `uid`?
one-liner command to empty multiple text files in terminal
technical term for a while loop
shell script- permission denied
parsing a variable ing
parsing a variable ing
make awk interpret one line at a time from variable
awk '/^/' empty output (complete command inside)
sending a mail from a linux shell script
how to set value  array using setenv
how do i determine sound card type with bash?
how to determine whether a given linux is 32 bit or 64 bit?
obtain the number of cpus/cores 
how to find unix/linux sytem info using java or shell script?
linux command for physical memory, getting the value only
unknown symbol entries when grepping top output
linux version check linux command or a java code
bash: variable in file path
cannot read from /sys/class/net/eth0/carrier even with sudo
cannot read from /sys/class/net/eth0/carrier even with sudo
script/terminal command to convert px values to dp in xml
list of files to check if present
: writing into a fifo
bash script different ouput when run as cronjob
identifying top recurring words from a list of e-mails based on a dictionary of interesting words
sed add additional column
how to use sed to replace partial of a find
print output of cat statement  script loop
print output of cat statement  script loop
how to read a file content in ash into an argument?
how to add empty line in text file using shell script?
bash - automatically capture output of last executed command into a variable
compile with c++ & mysql on debian using mingw32
how to output the number of lines created this month in a file
fifo to grep to file
fifo to grep to file
copying contents on a variable filename ing
grep all lines for a specific date in log-files
using grep as if condition inside awk
where are sudo incidents reported?
replacing with sed wont work
concatenate strings, files and program output 
merge all files in a directory into one using bash
concatenate and change extension
how to append contents of multiple files into one file
get return codes from previous functions
get return codes from previous functions
json format each object in a line
unable to put a .txt -file to the end of another .txt -file
use content of a file as argument for program
specify doxygen parameters through 
stdout to file from which is reading content
replace line feed with a space  script
how to use find command with sed and awk to remove duplicate ip from files
how to merge/append one file content to another file using shell script
concatenate every four files, linux
unique elements in each file
unique elements in each file
unique elements in each file
shell: extract some code from html
moving files from a .txt list with partial name
round each row in a file bash
round each row in a file bash
batch script issue while updating the output text file string as  argument
appending the contents of a file at the beginning of another file 
from within a bash script, how do i create a new filename, place a $variable in part of it?
filter unique row with positional file and fixed position of the key
add contents of 1 file to the top of another file
contents of ls appearing in middle of output
grep for files through another list of files
linux take out string from file and use it as file name?
unexpected output from cat `bash` command
log file search based on date and time range on multiple log files using awk
use pipe of commands as argument for diff
how to build one file contains other files, selected by mask?
,cmd to search a file recursively and retrieve the file instead of just the path of the file
linux: cat matching files in date order?
how to print a script's source ?
bash script wich can handle \x00 "chars"
how to keep blank lines in the end of a file when i user cat command 
how to keep blank lines in the end of a file when i user cat command 
transform csv file to mysql insert statement
transform csv file to mysql insert statement
how to keep blank lines in the end of a file when i user cat command 
extracting the values using grep
xargs with multiple commands as argument
sort uniq ip address in from apache log
looking for powershell equivalent of specific awk command
unix, regex with sed, search across multiple lines
using printf awk function to output nth arguments
shell: read a file and echo it's contents to another file
linux/perl returning list of folders that have not been modified for over x minutes
using dos file contents as  arguments 
using dos file contents as  arguments 
run a total of n jobs, having m of them running in parallel at any time
update selected tag values in xml file using shell script
howto enqueue all files listed in a file to a vlc playlist using cat and awk
can't execute console commands in c with fork and pipe
why when redirecting variable to stdin variable must be in double quotes?
assigment of variables ing
bash text search: find if the content of one file exists in another file
merge multiple .sql table dump files into a single file
merge multiple .sql table dump files into a single file
move files and rename - one-liner
bash script error with cat and if
bash script error with cat and if
sort and sum for large data files
sort and sum for large data files
find pattern from log file using awk
pipe | redirection  leftanglebrc   rightanglebrc  precedence
what does " leftanglebrc ()" mean ?
bash: how to merge files containing digits at certain position
appending file contents as parameter  shell command
send the "enter" from a bash script
processing arguments from file/cli/stdin 
processing arguments from file/cli/stdin 
retrieve plain text script from compiled bash script
awk subtract numeric record two from record one
removing spaces from columns of a csv file 
how can i calculate the sum of a specific column using bash?
is there a simple and robust way to create a "singleton" process ?
replace a string of characters with the line number
how can i create one linux shell command out of two commands that behaves like standard piping?
bash: convert multi lined (json) block into a single line string
word splitting  with input from a file
reading particular text from file with awk
awk skipping blank lines
piping a file into stdin with throttle
how to pretty print xml from the ?
sort each line in a text file
shell - cat - merge files content into one big file
append all files in a given directory to one file
bash gnu parallel help
how can use sed/awk or other tool to assist in search and replace of 12gb subversion dump file
expand chars with special meaning  here-string
what does " leftanglebrc ()" mean ?
how to extract the first word that follows a string?
bash cat multiple files
linux file craziness - strange behaviour getting last line of log file
can't write to named pipe
echo server built with netcat and fifo fails when used with rev
bash script for read a file
use pipe of commands as argument for diff
how to parse a file with one line 
replacing string columnwise using sed
how to perform arithmetic operations on an xml file in awk
adding a single date to the first column of a file
finding lines which are greater than 120 characters length using sed
replacing string columnwise using sed
regexp flag dotall in sed or alternatives
i have some trouble with "grep"and collating symbols
i have some trouble with "grep"and collating symbols
python, pipes, and the "-c" option in the 
filter each line of linux bash output by regexp
how do i create links from filepaths in a file?
adding day of week to dates in a text file
in a linux shell how can i process each line of a multiline string?
using sed to remove new line characters from the middle of a field
how do i use tr to substitute '--' string
replacing string columnwise using sed
how do i reverse escape backslash ecodings like "\ " and "\303\266" ?
how do i remove colons from a list of mac addresses?
how to change timestamp format
sed or awk, update the 1st column of data
linux write into same file with awk and tee: very odd behaviour
bash: how to flatten columns in text file?
how to find the distinct values 
how to use "read" command read a whole line data which end with  leftanglebrc cr rightanglebrc  leftanglebrc lf rightanglebrc  under bash?
using fs and rs in an awk command
putting the data passed to xargs twice in one line
putting the data passed to xargs twice in one line
cat several thousand files
cat several thousand files
to continuously loop using for ing
exclude duplicate lines from two different files and generate new?
how to format assembly comments 
deleting multiple lines from a csv file using sed
using awk sed or grep to parse urls from webpage source
pipe php function
delete html comment tags using regexp
what is meant by 'output to stdout'
can i store file contents to a variable in a shell script?
can i store file contents to a variable in a shell script?
linux: columns values check in a file
sed  script to copy the content of variable in a file
passing variable to grep inside lookbehind group
how to remove the last character from a bash grep output
shell script call  application
why sed removes last line?
how to get filepath from inside text file and perform operation 
x lion, how does one replace multiple spaces with a single space using sed?
replacing quotation marks with "``" and "''"
replacing quotation marks with "``" and "''"
bash: how to flatten columns in text file?
parsing using awk or sed 
sed (or awk) regular expression to replace substring of match
bash - remove all lines beginning with 'p'
bash: how to flatten columns in text file?
cat file find epochs and then convert the epochs to date
ssh, execute commands as yourself
bash shell script for mac to generate word list from a file?
bash shell script for mac to generate word list from a file?
how to remove all white spaces from a given text file
why isn't awk correctly spacing my fields?
how to pass in multiple arguments to prompt  script?
how do i search for anything between these tags
how can i add lines in a file from another file using awk or sed
insert a file at the beginning of a file possibly using sed
how can i add lines in a file from another file using awk or sed
how to find common words in multiple files
how to insert a line using into a file in alphabetical order using shell script
writing different of a file 
how to compare numeric fields in two files with awk
how to append one file to the other, with first file being edited, hence can't use usual cat command
cat command: stdin redirection not working when used along with a file
a bash riddle concerning stream redirection: `cat x  rightanglebrc  y  leftanglebrc `
a bash riddle concerning stream redirection: `cat x  rightanglebrc  y  leftanglebrc `
redirecting the input of two commands via pipe operator 
linux to prepend the data from one file to another
xargs respect wildcards in searches
bash adding line with criteria
ksh: best way to append one file to another inside of a pipe
ksh: best way to append one file to another inside of a pipe
awk is it possible to read a time field and use it for sorting?
create files from text list using ?
unexpected output from cat `bash` command
how to create several files from a list in a text file?
awk performance and cpu run time
read a file and store arbitrary values into a variable  script
read a file and store arbitrary values into a variable  script
append to the top of a large file: bash
parallelizing a while loop with arrays read from a file 
grep files with whitespaces in filename
print only values smaller than certain threshold 
concating string with shell script with accumulator
how can i add the current date or time to end of each line in file?
text manipulation of a file
script to remove string and keep numbers from files
script to remove string and keep numbers from files
script to remove string and keep numbers from files
pass string to script
how to create mysql database from shell command?
bash - take nth column in a text file
how to read the file using shell script?
xargs, grep and gnu parallel
recursively replace colons with underscores 
use lines in a file as filenames for grep?
how to pipe information into a buffer to recall 
swapping characters in 3rd column using sed/awk
awk to print field $2 first, then field $1
awk/sed regex, extract a column that has the delimiter
using cut in a shell script
awk/sed regex, extract a column that has the delimiter
awk/sed regex, extract a column that has the delimiter
how to remove the row that has special characters in it
count (non-blank) lines-of-code 
count (non-blank) lines-of-code 
xargs - use eof as delimeter
subshell io redirection
equivalent of  leftanglebrc () for sh?
using sed command
how would you group a number of lines?
linux : split a string
recommended way to batch stdin lines to another repeated command, like xargs but via stdin rather than arguments?
bash: creating a pipeline to list top 100 words
using 'for' 
add new lines to top and bottom of every text file
loop through a set of html files and append text at top and bottom of each file
append and prepend header and trailer to file unix/mac
run local python script on remote server
any interesting uses of makefiles to share?
bash script read hostnames from .txt file and place in variable for ssh
getting an image source with sed
bash output to file
complete password field scp command on linux
use exiv2 or imagemagick to remove exif data from stdin and output to stdout
use exiv2 or imagemagick to remove exif data from stdin and output to stdout
use exiv2 or imagemagick to remove exif data from stdin and output to stdout
set clipboard to image - pbcopy
pipe | redirection  leftanglebrc   rightanglebrc  precedence
awk/sed. how to remove parentheses in simple text file
awk/sed. how to remove parentheses in simple text file
linux command ambiguous redirect
copy system file without shell cp command
rearrange a file contents in n number of columns
sorting words in lines in a file and output sorted lines again
help on sorting a file using sort
how do i sort these values using bash script ?
reordering columns with awk
using awk to create a csv line
single-line if statement in a shell script not working
bash-- rightanglebrc batch + colon and back/forward-slash use
read an input file one line at a time to pass as input to grep
regexp for a bash script that removes html garbage from a string
regexp for a bash script that removes html garbage from a string
get a number out of a string without spaces
how can i write in 2nd column keeping the previous column is empty of a file /awk?
filter apache log file using regular expression
filter apache log file using regular expression
convert a date with bash into mysql format
how to do str.strip() for every line in a text file? unix
how to resolve dependecies while running a shell script remotely?
replacing non-printables with their vi editor code using sed
replacing non-printables with their vi editor code using sed
replacing non-printables with their vi editor code using sed
replacing non-printables with their vi editor code using sed
how to count number of unique values of a field in a tab-delimited text file?
temporary input redirection 
how to write while loop for lines
how to gather characters usage statistics in text file using unix commands?
echo changes my tabs to spaces
string match and collapse to a unique record
remove all the lines from file starting from "{" to "}" using sed
how to ping each ip in a file?
bash line concatenation during variable interpolation
how to subset a file - select a numbers of rows or columns
how to subset a file - select a numbers of rows or columns
tar extract archive read from stdin
how can i execute grep in a script?
sort text lines by given field
move certain lines to the preceding line
counts of various elements in various files
add wait between parallel processes 
copy file to file from a list of pair of text
formatting lists with the column command in *nix
bash - how to check for duplicate email addresses across multiple files?
rename a list of file with names from another list
selective string operation
bash script: sed/awk/regex to match an ip address and replace
how to split lines  log file output
bash script: sed/awk/regex to match an ip address and replace
bash script: sed/awk/regex to match an ip address and replace
sed replace with regex
to get all the lines from the log except the lines with particular string
to get all the lines from the log except the lines with particular string
grep or c code to parse log file?
using a variable in a bash command?
replace properties in a properties file by using gnu tools
what's the error?
grep with wildcard and count the matched lines
unix cat : no such file or directory error
parse xml pairs with bash
using sed to find a folder directory in a file and replacing with another directory
trouble with unix pipes
why is my pipe  getting stuck?
how can i read a file and redirect it to a variable?
what is cat for and what is it doing here?
2-way communication with background process (i/o)
sed uppercase lines if they starting with an uppercase character
why you would choose "a.out file" over "a.out  leftanglebrc  file" or vice versa? c++
sed append after multi-line match
appending text to all files that starts with a string
how do i change a replace a single word within a text file?
matching text in quotes (newbie)
xargs repeated copy file based on text file input
push public key on multiple server using root account but under different user
bash script: how to add a section to a config file?
java system.exit return code isn't detected by bash eval
bash uniq, how to show count number at back
is there a unix  utilty for 'mapping' by line?
is there a unix  utilty for 'mapping' by line?
is there a unix  utilty for 'mapping' by line?
replace text from a mysql dump using cat (or something else) 
cat a file multiple times without a loop
how to use file contents as command-line arguments?
linux: find a list of files in a dictionary recursively
image file size is too small. i want it increased
bash - how to check for duplicate email addresses across multiple files?
syntax error near unexpected token ' - bash
sed move text in .txt to next line
multiplying specific components of two files and placing answer into another file
opposite of linux split
using sort | awk on one column from a csv?
is it possible to distribute stdin over parallel processes?
shell script password auditing
bash scripting and conditional statements
bash scripting and conditional statements
replace random text between a constant starting and ending string using shell command
grep multiple patterns from a file and output first 5 matches for each pattern
how to insert a line in a file between two blocks of known lines (if not already inserted previously), using bash?
regular expression for finding escaped apostrophe's around contractions
preprocessor to include file
preprocessor to include file
mysql  and transactions
regex for converting 001002003004.test.com to an ip
linux + what the best way to merge files
one awk script bug i can't fix
python equivalent to perl -pe?
merge similar files in awk
how do i extract a path from html with sed?
what is the simplest way to write a bash script to accept arguments and input from all possible direction (similar to sort -k1 -r)?
pass args for script when going thru pipe
grep data between 2 patterns ing
bash - how to pass arguments to a script that is read via standard input
syntax error near unexpected token `elif'
how to use single quotes inside awk statement that is surrounded by single quotes?
bash script always prints "command not found"
sed regex-replace of a log file
sed regex-replace of a log file
shell script - how would i compare the same files of different dat
using awk to print all columns from the nth to the last
using awk to print all columns from the nth to the last
bash: "xargs cat", adding newlines after each file
appending a file using sed command
convert quoted string list to specific format
using bash for loop to search file for unique line
equivalent of ftp put and append in scp
gnu parallel to replace piping xargs -n 1
how to replace many intermediate blank lines with only 1 blank line each
printing out the value from a matrix
print script content (python)
how to store the result of an executed shell command in a variable in python?
can someone tell me why this bash script won't run?
bash: how to redirect the result in to another file
pass parameter to date command through pipe
string substitution from text file to another string
how to replace ${} placeholders in a text file?
what are linux command to get following output?
shell script to parse through a file ( csv ) and process line by line
using sed to expand environment variables inside files
best (quickest) way to parse and modify a file
extract filenames (without extension) from xml file
aspell not returning misspelled words when using sgml mode with an extra dictionary
awk/etc.: extract matches from file
awk/etc.: extract matches from file
add json array element with jq (cmdline)
what are good cli tools for json?
how to grep a text file which contains some binary data?
concatenating string 
perl search replace with negative lookahead
perl search replace with negative lookahead
sort subgroups of lines with command-line tools
shell:nested for loop
, how to process this line, in order to extract the filed that i want
copy files from a list to a folder
using shell to analysis a file: combination of while and if
removing newlines in postgres dump
sort a text file by line length including spaces
\s regular expression
cat command: unexpected output
extract strings in a text file using grep
extract strings in a text file using grep
extract strings in a text file using grep
extract strings in a text file using grep
returning the entire sentence and not just line
list all the words in a text file with occurrence counts?
how to make the 'cut' command treat several sequential delimiters as one?
send text file, line by line, with netcat
print everything on line after match
sort hex numbers of different length from the ?
keep letter from letter range regex using sed?
sed find,match and replace
bash expression evaluation order on 
accessing each line using a $ sign 
cat not working a pipe
can anyone help me in find the number of xml tag occurences using awk or sed
copy contents of all files into one file  different sequence
sed delete not working with cat variable
adding a number to a variable
script to replace tokens with values mentioned in properties file
wc in background does not return
how can i search from string1 to string2 ?
using cat in a bash script : escaping troubles
using cat in a bash script : escaping troubles
gzip: stdout: file too large when running customized backup script
tar very large files to ftp directly splited into smaller files
strange behavior with getline and awk
significance of echo start|cat rightanglebrc  rightanglebrc log 
how to parse lots of html file  command or bash script
how to find identical lines from the following list
replace a line in a text file
remove/replace html tags 
to read from file and putting values in where clause via shell script
remove all special characters and case from string 
shell script error expecting "do"
view history of commands typed in other terminals by the same user
switching over to zsh breaks rails 
openssl  script
curl awk { print } help
bash variables containing filepaths
how to copy a file to a folder if there is already a file with the same name (linux bash)
how to get tomcat java_opts from ?
python subprocess library: running grep command from python
creating .dylib from c source code at the 
converting space delimiter to comma delimiter file using unix script
how to get the first available tcp port to listen to?
bash unable to execute the executable file
bash unable to execute the executable file
get text between two strings 
get text between two strings 
how to stop cache instance from shell script
create a bash alias for the cd - command
awk: fatal: cannot open file ' for reading (no such file or directory)
run expect script in current directory
bash shortcut to get parent of last used parameter
bash shortcut to get parent of last used parameter
cd command doesn't work as desired inside a shell script
how to cd into a directory with space in the name?
create folder in same directory as shell script
open a folder from a name in txt file bash
cd in pipe after getting folder path
bash cut associates with cd
bash: using commands as parameters (specifically cd, dirname and find)
valid/robust pattern to find the absolute path of the executing unix shell script?
shell scripts  x run from home directory?
double-click shell script issues (.command on mac)
how to make the bash script portable?
how to get absolute path name of shell script on macos?
shell script file existence on mac issue
bash: using commands as parameters (specifically cd, dirname and find)
cd in binary directory
bash - how to pipe result from the which command to cd
bash - how to pipe result from the which command to cd
find command 
get `dirname $0` of a kornshell script called by a symbolic link
a bash one-liner to change into the directory where some file is located
a bash one-liner to change into the directory where some file is located
how do i get the absolute directory of a file ?
using sed to swap windows location for mac
shell script change directory with variable
bash cut associates with cd
is there a way to find a specific file and then change into the directory containing it in one go?
bash/shell search for subfolder in current dir and cd into it
find the directory alphanumerically
change script directory to user's homedir in a shell script
git: a quick command to go to root of the working tree
how to cd to directory echo'd by script
change current directory with node
run multiple shell scripts in a single script
using sed to swap windows location for mac
bash - how to pipe result from the which command to cd
command substitution but without breaking output into multiple arguments
bash script errors, i in forloop: no such file or directory
tar creates an empty folder, how do i get rid of it?
escape spaces  folder variable
when running $pwd/filename.sh is working correctly but having a error on running ./filename.sh
bash script change working directory to the directory it is in
git add multiple files from bash array
"tar --directory" won't work
gunicorn not work outside project directory, even export pwd=$djangodir
how to cd into a directory with space in the name?
how to cd into a directory with space in the name?
nstask with bash script problem
maple: how to include my library at startup
.bashrc does not read enviroment path correctly with spaces
bash : space in path access
passing environmental variables into sh in procfile
using sed to swap windows location for mac
shell script to enter a directory (folder name contains spaces)
spawn a background process in a bash function
when running $pwd/filename.sh is working correctly but having a error on running ./filename.sh
run script from any directory
how to manage long paths ?
cd command doesn't work as desired inside a shell script
linux checking number of files subdirectory - providing wrong variable result when subdirectory searching for does not exist
running a bash command from a directory
bash script for iterating through defined set of file names and performing commands
how to generate manifest (list of files with their sizes and count) for a folder 
what is bash analog of cmd start /d with nohup?
how to get file name using unix?
windows powershell: shortcut for change directory
use `pbcopy` as path for cd command
bash - get the entire file name having space in it
run an executable on all the files in a folder (with subfolders)
how to make an "alias" for a long path?
iteratively copy a directory's contents to multiple other directories in os x terminal (bash)
how to escape whitespace in a bash alias?
i have tried to access the variable value of user input variable value ing
how to make the bash script portable?
shell script : changing working dir and spaces in folder name
cd to a folder name starting with tilde (~)  script
bash: in directory `directory_name.git`, how to cd to `../directory_name`?
advanced directory switching 
faster way to unix cd by changing one directory inside path?
awk: fatal: cannot open file ' for reading (no such file or directory)
cmd $env:appdata - the system cannot find the path specified
how do i convert a bash shell script to a .bat file?
bash command to get the absolute path of a file: `%~dpnx1`
how to move one directory back  / linux when path contains symbolic links?
bash cd .. returns nothing
linux parents parent path to file
execute command from another directory without really moving
mac terminal problem
mac terminal problem
how to escape whitespace in a bash alias?
change directory in batch file using variable
save file from usb onto computer using 
how do i save the output of the bat file to a specific location
git bash - how to default to other directory instead of home directory
how to use `amp;` & `gt;` commands -shell?
transfering millions of images -- rsync not good enough
how do you call shell scripts from an arbitrary directory?
how does argument order work in a bash shell script?
java: how to run a java process in a specific directory?
 options
turn off rvm greeting on login
.bashrc does not read enviroment path correctly with spaces
bash: evaluate substitution and replace on 
bash scripting..copying files without overwriting
bash scripting..copying files without overwriting
bash scripting..copying files without overwriting
mkdir from result of ls
linux bash script: how to get file without path?
how to get `npm root` for given directory (different from current one)?
bash executing multiple commands in background in same line
simple bash script, how can i make it shorter and better?
imgur bash script won't work when bound to a key
how does tar read files to create an archive?
add text to each line of find command
add text to each line of find command
bash && operator prevents backgrounding over ssh
what starts new subshell ?
 the difference between a compound statement ";" and "&&"
 the difference between a compound statement ";" and "&&"
creating a zip for my app  script
how to start xterm in a directory containing .rvmrc file
using cd command over bash
using cd command over bash
subshells, permissions and following symlinks on os x/darwin: why do i get permission errors?
subshells, permissions and following symlinks on os x/darwin: why do i get permission errors?
'vagrant ssh -c command' behavior differs from running commands inside a 'vagrant ssh' session
how to 'ls' another directory  script?
copy a list of files in one file list to another folder
running mysql script from cmd.exe in ms windows 7
windows powershell: shortcut for change directory
how can i run the executable file created by code::blocks on ubuntu?
temporally change current working directory  to run a command
git bash : how to move to a directory
git bash : how to move to a directory
changing to directories with spaces in the name
should you change the current directory in a shell script?
bash "cd" command not working properly
bash/shell search for subfolder in current dir and cd into it
change directory to last match in *nix cd command
how to find a section of current directory path using regex in a bash function
refresh a stale symlink linux
bash: evaluate substitution and replace on 
bash redirection help
bash - how to pipe result from the which command to cd
how to list (for given two directories) the directories with the same names and relative paths under the trees.
how to list (for given two directories) the directories with the same names and relative paths under the trees.
emulate git cp, including files with spaces in names
alias to 'cd' command with subshell not working as expected
the mysql  doesn't launch
install ruby gem globally from github repository
recursively scp except current directory
how to view a list of txt file in a folder?
untarring a moved file with shell
how do i get the effect of gnu tar's --strip-components with git-archive?
bash avoid filename interpretation
bash avoid filename interpretation
bash avoid filename interpretation
bash avoid filename interpretation
how to insert the looping parameter into the middle of a string?
how can i execute a node.js  prompt?
how do i tar a directory of files and folders without including the directory itself?
run a solution from visual studio console without opening ide
updating a submodule to most recent commit
linux bash - remove all files which are in one directory from another directory
what these svn s do in detail?
vagrant commands different folders
remote rsync in parallel
save file to specific folder with curl command
mixing python and bash in ipython
maple: how to include my library at startup
running file from ssh connection doesn't work correctly. file got executed correctly only with direct connection
bash auto complete
terminal (mac) create alias that includes user input
make alias/link to shell script that calls relative files
why is "noclobber" appearing  arguments
alias to source a bash file from another dir and return to current dir
alias to source a bash file from another dir and return to current dir
unable to shorten a specific prompt's path in zsh
bash-shell script revise and suggestion
cd to a folder name starting with tilde (~)  script
bash script to convert windows path to linux path
how to store output from command to a path?
best way to check if a iptables userchain exist.
error when trying to run rspec: `require': cannot load such file -- rails_helper (loaderror)
mess with functions and associative arrays in ksh93
syntax for changing activerecord data type on 
executing multiple pipes in a loop
executing multiple pipes in a loop
replacing a path with sed
passing a pointer variable to store an array of strings ( arguments)
creating a history command for a shell program using the c language
weirdest segmentation fault ever
help with simple linux shell implementation
creating a history command for a shell program using the c language
program received signal: “exc_bad_access”?
understanding what flags to pass to the compiler
c++ read value from shell command linux
making own shell in c
call a shell script from c
how can i deal with null environmental variables in my minishell?
how can i assign a filename passed from  in a c script?
how to read an char argv input and parse(check) it for non-integers
wowwee mip command over bluetooth  with gatttool
how do i get the 2nd and 4th character from a string
using "en dash" in an input file to a batch file
unicode characters in windows  - how?
perl not printing special characters in command prompt
how to terminate a shell when sub shell command fails?
why is this bash while loop infinite?
eval awk command with single quotes
why is my bash script breaking on an empty space?
how to execute sh for all the files in current directory
sublime text 2 - os x 
bash script - redirect child script stderr to parent's stdout
bash script - redirect child script stderr to parent's stdout
pass partial list of arguments from the parent script to the child script
executing jmeter on a unix box
cannot execute bash script in redhat linux
save terminal command to file that runs command in terminal when opened
bash script running from launchdaemon on mac - not connecting to jenkins
how to detect when networking initialized in /etc/init.d script?
running python program after it is terminated via crontab
how do you call shell scripts from an arbitrary directory?
new to scripting. need jar to run with on a large list of files
how can i run same command in a shell every 3h
bash test and execute if directory pattern exists
run a shell script in new terminal from current terminal
run a python script in terminal without the python command
run commands through shell scripts 
bash: delete chars in a file, only on the first line
how to run a shell script by just typing its name, as opposed to sh  leftsquarebrc scriptname rightsquarebrc ?
mongodb with bash: creating replica sets gets 'error : unknown option fork use --help for help'
how to script folder deletion on mac
using  to remove lines from text file
using  to remove lines from text file
use curl with a file of commands
command not found -3.2$
run text files in terminal
creating and running a file with  arguments
how to run python script without typing 'python ...'
how can i run the executable file created by code::blocks on ubuntu?
sending html mail using a shell script
why might "mkdir -p" lead to a bash permission error?
executing the bash on the amazon server with a error  leftsquarebrc error: spawn eacces rightsquarebrc , the bash is in right path
screen will not start. no clue why
how to pass textbox value to bash script
using a while/for loop with the 'find' command to copy files and directories
run bash script with sh
how does #! work and how can i make it work for coffeescript?
converting a shell script to a dmg
mac os x - run shell script from the desktop gui
making python script accessible system wide
turn an application or script into a shell command
how to create installer of sh file in ubuntu
a good way to merge files accroding to the file name python or bash
how to make a "macro" to automate some bash commands in os x terminal?
run multiple shell scripts in a single script
how to compile and run this code without using erlang shell
autocomplete for the ruby command 
can't execute shell script from python subprocess: permission denied
bash script to archive files and then copy new ones
shell script for installation
how do i alias a  command? (mac)
executing shell script without calling sh implicitly
trying to kill process by shell scripting
how do i run a shell script without using “sh” command?
expression not getting evaluated 
scripting on linux
system date into variable unix
add a ruby command-line application to /usr/bin?
invalid char ' ' ' in expression
tmux run command - "returned 126", what does that mean?
how to run swi-prolog from the ?
copy file permissions, but not files
bash script with path name failing
how to make all files under a directory world readable on linux?
android emulator  leftsquarebrc xcb rightsquarebrc  error in ubuntu 14.04
how to force current directory permissions on all sub-directories ?
-r not working with chmod?
how to recursively chmod directories with space characters in their names
apply directory permissions to all new subdirectories 
error: eacces, permission denied ionic cordova ios
how to force current directory permissions on all sub-directories ?
modifying user 
linux change group permission to match owner permissions
how to set world permissions to be the same as group permissions?
"saving wrappers to '/users/user/.rvm/bin'........" every time terminal opens
"saving wrappers to '/users/user/.rvm/bin'........" every time terminal opens
command/syntax for specifying dynamic profile name in cygwin
command/syntax for specifying dynamic profile name in cygwin
mysql authentication using script without supplying password in plain text
mysql commands running  possess an error
packer and post-install scripts
bash script running from launchdaemon on mac - not connecting to jenkins
-r not working with chmod?
adb shell giving bad mode when executing chmod (under su)
cron job and bash script to check battery state and beep
how can i get  parameters into python anywhere's scheduler?
ignore $ in first of commands
how do you run a command for each line of a file?
writing a shell script to install cron job
writing a shell script to install cron job
how to run a shell script before shutdown on centos
ant permission denied problem
what permissions are needed to write to folder outside of webroot?
locking the contents of shell file
how can i create .sh extension file  ubuntu
cronjob returns an error when running
what is ./lks.sh: permission denied  when running a shell script?
how to copy a .sh file to 'bin/sh/'
how can i define a bash alias as a sequence of multiple commands?
equivalent of .bat 
custom  utility. how?
how to create a hidden file 
rm: cannot remove: permission denied
automating cygwin commands in windows  (and ultimately in msbuild)
how to change example.bat to example.pl?
run multiple shell scripts in a single script
bash: /bin/myscript: permission denied
maven: bash mvn permission denied
date arithmetic  scripts
beaglebone inittab issue
fuse filesystem - rightanglebrc  bash: ./configure: brak dostępu
bad substitution  script
how can i create a  (unix/linux) instruction that uses variables to execute numerous commands?
create a batch file which remove folder in my desktop - mac
run typescript compiler from shell command - permission denied
running a java class file using unix syntax?
send bash script into background on start
permission setuid
how to use the .* wildcard  but exclude the parent directory (..)?
how do i change the group ownership of a file in ubuntu?
strange systems permissions warnings when running processes 
shell script : navigate to root
modify permissions of a directory 
ant permission denied problem
on mac osx how can i associate a script file with terminal so double clicking the icon launches terminal?
bash tab completion with argparse does not show all the files in the directory
how to get a filename in a bash script without the keyboard
cant access coda application from command-line
comparing many files 
how can i print second and last three lines from multiple text files?
openshift memcached install fails
make executable erlang program on the mac terminal
shell crontab not working
how to put a command in a sh file
for loop in two steps one with sudo
running shell commands from xcode breakpoint
why does this sh shebang not work?
turn all files in a folder into function aliases with bash
is there a way to chmod ugo-rw 12 different gif and jpg files within a folder without chmoding each individual one?
how to force current directory permissions on all sub-directories ?
why is '$_' the same as $argv in a perl one-liner?
modifying user 
file_put_contents over shell execute fails
change user and group of android app files to replicate issue user is having
whm / cpanel : manage wheel group users and ssk keys access
cannot enter in centos with any user
how do i change the group ownership of a file in ubuntu?
what permissions are needed to write to folder outside of webroot?
testing server & client
load unpacked chrome extension programatically
load unpacked chrome extension programatically
bash - a complex scripting
bash: executing commands from within a chroot and switch user
what's wrong with this bash script?
i ran a script to set up dotfiles and can't undo it
change user from bash to zsh on dreamhost
ruby versions differ in terminal & bash
ubuntu linux in rackspace cloud but www-data user does not show www-data@server1 for log
unable to have zsh as a log at screen's startup
unable to update my bash in mac by macports
setting a program as my log
force an uninterruptable bash script to run on login ssh
error while installing oh-my-zsh
add comment in rcs
passing all parameters to a git alias
bash script to find files that match by content
how to include libraries when compiling with visual studio on ?
visual c++  compiler (cl.exe) redirect obj files
using "$@" inside others quotes 
xcode  tool for calculator
change clang's colored output
undefined reference.. linker command failed with exit code 1
how to make the clang static analyzer output its working from ?
problems when simultaneously launching two programs with bash
deleting the files thru shell
understanding a shell script code using expand function
weird characters when i print a number into a file (bash shell)
pipe commands  function
pipelines vs for
how can i list the recommended base line in clearcase
how can i list the recommended base line in clearcase
how to indent multi-line clearcase comment using cleartool format (-fmt)
finding parent of checked out version in clearcase
how to get cleartool diff to return to  while diff viewer is still open?
how to find if a file/directory is checked out in clearcase using shell script
how can i list the recommended base line in clearcase
execute compiled clojurescript from the commandline with rhino
run shell command in clojure from specific location
can i create shortcuts for long console commands ?
escaping a space 
escaping a space 
building msvc project with cmake and command-line
cmake, build options
bash: redirect and append both stdout and stderr
execute a command
exeuting command in background
cmd 2 rightanglebrc &1  rightanglebrc  log vs cmd  rightanglebrc  log 2 rightanglebrc &1
cmd 2 rightanglebrc &1  rightanglebrc  log vs cmd  rightanglebrc  log 2 rightanglebrc &1
bash inserting quotes into string before execution
bash inserting quotes into string before execution
nohup appending output and error instead of overwrite
output for loop to a file
how to manipulate the output of a .jar file and print it in a file or php variable
how to manipulate the output of a .jar file and print it in a file or php variable
bash print stderr only, not stdout
check the status code of a scp command and if it is failed, then call scp on another machine
bash quotes in variable treated different when expanded to command
bash quotes in variable treated different when expanded to command
run cmd.exe with specified parametrs from javascript
run cmd.exe with specified parametrs from javascript
powershell command processing (passing in variables)
cannot start a program with parameters
unable to escape space in command shell of windows
how do i execute shell commands through eggplant on windows?
powershell script dosn't work when starting it by double-clicking
how to avoid command window popping on cmd.exe
a .bat file, "call" or not to "call", that is the
windows 
new cygwinshell in own window
how do you keep the command prompt open when using java?
!start not being found on vim 
cmd.exe /k switch
is there a parameter for msdos commands (e.g. ipconfig) that cause them to wait for input before disappearing?
how do you keep the command prompt open when using java?
how do you keep the command prompt open when using java?
sublime text build system and echo
adb pull file in a specific folder of pc
calling bash commands from ruby
running mutiple shell commands inside perl script
how to redirect command output ?
prepend to  arguments /bash
regular expression for finding numbers of this format num:num:num:num
awk iso to epoch
regular expression for finding numbers of this format num:num:num:num
how do i ignore a pipe symbol at the front?
how do i ignore a pipe symbol at the front?
how can i redirect stderr to stdout, but ignore the original stdout?
how can i redirect stderr to stdout, but ignore the original stdout?
how can i redirect stderr to stdout, but ignore the original stdout?
darcs help breaks my shell
why does 2 rightanglebrc &1 need to come before a | (pipe) but after a " rightanglebrc  myfile" (redirect to file)?
why does 2 rightanglebrc &1 need to come before a | (pipe) but after a " rightanglebrc  myfile" (redirect to file)?
bash command for  rightanglebrc stdout and  rightanglebrc stdout+stderr
piping both stdout and stderr ?
how to call nested program 
how to call nested program 
how to call nested program 
get predefined macros from gcc without temporary files
command-line arguments to an exe
how to create a triple nested  string for shell function in vba?
running a command-line operation from within java
how to decode system process output in scala?
how do i redirect stdin/stdout when i have a sequence of commands ?
unix: is possible to bypass exit codes of unix?
how to exit if a command failed?
how to exit if a command failed?
begin end or brackets ?
, is there a way have multiple pipes to one process?
in the shell, what is “ 2 rightanglebrc &1 &”?
shell's logic and, cmd1 && cmd2, it's reversed, right?
why does 2 rightanglebrc &1 need to come before a | (pipe) but after a " rightanglebrc  myfile" (redirect to file)?
need script to continue when switching over to new user
redirect the output of one command to more than one command
redirect the output of one command to more than one command
is there pipe map ?
how do i avoid the need to create a temporary file to run two commands from a bash shell?
how do i avoid the need to create a temporary file to run two commands from a bash shell?
invalid char in expression awk, python
how can i make a dummy shell take no arguments in c?
how can i make a dummy shell take no arguments in c?
vba to find install date and bios date for remote machines
advance process control in php
how to bring system grep results into ruby
unexpected output using subprocess in python
how do i get the values printed to logfile to be stored in arrays
see if list of rows exists in a file
compare 2 files with shell script
bash shell script not working as intended using cmp with output redirection
bash, how to print out that files are the same when using cmp
don't want to use double quotes when using git commit -a -m
multiline delete with sed
cant access coda application from command-line
cant access coda application from command-line
coffeescript compile on windows with nodejs
coffeescript compile on windows with nodejs
coffeescript compile on windows with nodejs
coffeescript error
coffeescript error
how can i pipe from terminal in perl without losing color?
 csv viewer?
convert columns and rows in readable format
deleting columns from text files with sed
remove what follows nth occurrence using one-liners
remove what follows nth occurrence using one-liners
delete columns from space delimited file where file header matches
formatting lists with the column command in *nix
formatting lists with the column command in *nix
bash - how to format file in orderly manner?
unix column command: wrong column width for headers
deleting columns from text files with sed
print space-separated list in columns
tab issues in ruby when outputting to a shell prompt
formatting lists with the column command in *nix
print space-separated list in columns
sort and print in line
sort and print in line
bash open .html file not in browser but with $editor
extract file content from match pattern to another match pattern
comparing two text files with each other
how to pipe two commands as parameters?
unix diff command compare difference between 2 txt files and generate more command
reverse grep from infile
how to find common words in multiple files
how does the and-operator work in the find-command?
how do i find common characters between two strings ?
intersection of two lists 
shell script, checking homework copy violation
display duplicate lines in two different files
list of files to check if present
display duplicate lines in two different files
comparing large text files
finding the differences between two files
nested for loop comparing files
bash - difference between two lists
how to grep a word that has special character '$' in it?
fastest way of finding differences between two files ?
get the first column of comm output
unix bash aix - find files from one directory but not in another
 find all files in flat directory that don't exist in another directory tree
compare two results and print the missing part if exist
compare two results and print the missing part if exist
bash - difference between two lists
grep lines in file1 if not found in file2
awk reading fields in a bash script
print only words that are in file a not in b
list of files to check if present
remove lines from file which appear in another file
awk reading fields in a bash script
comparing 2 unsorted lists , listing the unique in the second file
taking a column of output from comm without losing blank lines
unix - how to print the difference between two text files?
differences between two large files 
find different records between two files using unix commands
how to find the set - subset of two files from the ?
how can i remove everything except listed files with the find-command?
is command substitution $(foo) bashism?
redirect standard output to a log and standard error to an error log
how to append the output to a file?
bash redirection
unix print output on one line
how do you invoke program  and give a variable
insert a file at the beginning of a file possibly using sed
execute a bash command on a list of files as stdin and redirect the stdout on other files
how does jenkins deal with interactive shell scripts?
what is the difference between " rightanglebrc " and "& rightanglebrc " ?
what does this shell script line of code mean?
what does this shell script line of code mean?
concating string with shell script with accumulator
compressing using tar with bash script : line n is a directory
bash + mysql -d backtick issue
bash + mysql -d backtick issue
bash command substitution stdout+stderr redirect
what is the difference between different input/output redirection styles?
what is the difference between different input/output redirection styles?
what is the difference between different input/output redirection styles?
what is the difference between different input/output redirection styles?
redirection 
wait for ssh password in a bash script
wait for ssh password in a bash script
why should eval be avoided , and what should i use instead?
using  rightanglebrc  /dev/null when setting a variable
using  rightanglebrc  /dev/null when setting a variable
comparing two values  with hadoop
have bash script execute multiple programs as separate processes
have bash script execute multiple programs as separate processes
have bash script execute multiple programs as separate processes
automating ftp session
how to capture sqlplus  output  file
awk line to variable?
discarding err and output 
using grep inside shell script gives file not found error
bash subshell: parenthese:() vs dollar-parenthese:$()
dummy filesize after do "cat /dev/null  rightanglebrc  logfile.log"
dummy filesize after do "cat /dev/null  rightanglebrc  logfile.log"
shell script error: "head: invalid trailing option -- 1"
use of  leftanglebrc  in while loop
shell script display grep results
why gradle's wrapper  has to be started in this way?
print to out file
${1:+"$@"} in /bin/sh
using grep inside shell script gives file not found error
whats a good example bash script to learn from?
how do i script hunpos through text files?
execute a read command
how to quote strings in file names in zsh (passing back to other scripts)
execute a shell command in nodejs
piping the output of gunzip ( of two files ) seperately
why does timeout not work within a bash script?
find path to binary without which
what is the purpose of the `:' (colon) gnu bash builtin?
is there a way to set the value of $? in a mock in ruby?
bash command in ruby script - error "command not found"
python does not run shell command properly
rsync hangs / freezes when trying to sync a symfony project via windows xp
rsync hangs / freezes when trying to sync a symfony project via windows xp
how do i pass a list of values to xargs as a single argument list?
can i pipe between commands, and run the programs from different directories?
date checker script
want to check whether a command succeeded by redirecting its output to a variable
want to check whether a command succeeded by redirecting its output to a variable
which unix command to get a number from inside this string?
bash write a loop to run a command
while read line, awk $line with multiple delimiters
extracting a string from multiline output
how to run awk for some number of lines.?
how to add date string to each line of a continuously written log file
print the last occurrences of duplicate line only
access $? variable with a piped statement?
bash script to backup mysql databases starting with specified prefix
how to wait for a task to complete before continuing shell script
does not work to execute command in double brackets 
how to retrieve the return code of a command in a short-circuit expression
how change only one parameter in file
sed : insert lines after specific pattern with newline
parse the output of a command only when it's an error, and only with native batch commands
how to automatically pipe to less if the result is more than a page on my shell?
extracting a string from multiline output
bash script beep depending on stdout message
bash script beep depending on stdout message
unix command to ignore lines that begins with x
how to pipe stderr, and not stdout?
how do i make a bash script know the output of a cli program it executed ?
how do i make a bash script know the output of a cli program it executed ?
linux : combining the "ls" and "cp" command
sh loop command until return value =0
problem with copy files using cmd in java
sed to replace a line with containing wild card character
bash script iterating files in a directory goes into infinite loop
index current line 
linux: how to sort a given directory by time and list down the size of the files/directories
why function ls { ls; } hangs in there?
(mass) text processing in place ()
print the last occurrences of duplicate line only
print the last occurrences of duplicate line only
how to add date string to each line of a continuously written log file
piping in on the  simulating a file?
what happens if i name a bash script function with the name of a binary located in the path?
starting a process over ssh using bash and then killing it on sigint
bash: starting each line of a command output with a comment symbol
bash: starting each line of a command output with a comment symbol
join and process two lines from top command output
bash - redirect stdout to log and screen with stderr only to log
print the last occurrences of duplicate line only
print the last occurrences of duplicate line only
print the last occurrences of duplicate line only
bash: redirect (and append) stdout and stderr to file and terminal
pipe stdout and stderr to two different processes ?
bash ambiguous redirect - redirect to multiple files
is it possible to redirect the output of a command to one file, but still keep the output echoing on the terminal?
how do i write stderr to a file while using "tee" with a pipe?
redirect standard output to a log and standard error to an error log
why a command option "-f" be taken as a command by bash
bash script + read line by line + ambiguos redirect?
regular expression to extract (video) names from html tags
direct stderr to stdout $ command-name 2 rightanglebrc &1 doesn't stderr get printed to the terminal by default?
how to ignore return value different then 0 when i have set -e?
passing control+c  script
passing control+c  script
how to redirect both stdout and stderr to a file
how to redirect both stdout and stderr to a file
how to use awk to print columns in a loop
how to use awk to print columns in a loop
can't redirect stderr to a file
using command output in dos
run command2 only if command1 succeeded  windows shell
bash: run one command after another, even if i suspend the first one (ctrl-z)
unix test for existence or file
unix test for existence or file
can't redirect stderr to a file
multiple possible values for variable 
multiple possible values for variable 
is there a try catch command 
variables set in a bash 'while read' loop are unset after it
pipe stdout and stderr to two different processes ?
how to pipe () standard output to a variable, and stderr to a command
expressing if then else via logical && and ||
bash script function verification
do while loop . make exception for the 1st record and continue on the loop as usual
grep using output from another command
bash piping pv - move file and (un)tar
how can i split and re-join stdout from multiple processes?
valid commands to be used in backticks ?
ansible command module says that '|' is illegal character
ansible command module says that '|' is illegal character
using bash glob in gradle exec task
getting items on the local clipboard from a remote ssh session
searching for a file with letter "o" and number 6
concating string with shell script with accumulator
shell command syntax, input array of args for single option
redirecting bash stdout/stderr to two places?
how to transmit more than 2048 chars to *.sh script in ksh?
shell - pipe to multiple commands in a file
c# console application uses , command does not execute
c# console application uses , command does not execute
getting different output files
compressing files through  on a windows system
imagemagick compare shell script seems to hang
zsh: use completions for command x when i type command y
autocompletion based on filenames in a directory
zsh: use completions for command x when i type command y
zsh: use completions for command x when i type command y
standard zsh completion for arguments of a zsh function
bash: get list of commands starting with a given string
listing defined functions 
bash: get list of variables whose name matches a certain pattern
how to pass an autocomplete list to a pipe ?
bash: compgen how to get rid of warning message  leftsquarebrc option may not work as you expect rightsquarebrc ?
linux command to list all available commands and aliases
how do i get a list of all available shell commands
can't match programs to bash's total from double tab press
how do i get a list of all available shell commands
source shell script into makefile
bash shell parameter (indirect) expansion
check if git branch exists : weird interpolation behavior
bash autocompletion with alias command
preserve bash completion for all commands that are prepended by a custom command
bash alias with argument and autocompletion
showing only the substrings of compreply bash completion options to the user
how to activate full $var completion
bash complete from two sources, folders and keys from array
customize tab completion 
bash alias autocompletion that considers only *.foo files
specifying two file extensions  complete
how to setup auto complete alias for git commands?
how do i get bash completion to work with aliases?
how to pass subcommand back into bash completion?
how to enable default file completion 
showing only the substrings of compreply bash completion options to the user
how to enable default file completion 
bash autocompletion with alias command
copying bash completion (without copying the actual code)
bash tab completion with argparse does not show all the files in the directory
how to activate full $var completion
tab completion in console for rake commands
how can i print intermediate results from a pipeline to the screen?
conditional trailing space with bash programmable completion
installing laravel 4.1 in windows 7 // make .phar file globally available to windows 
unable to execute laravel artisan commands
symfony 2.2.1 rsync deploy - not working on remote server
symfony 2.2.1 rsync deploy - not working on remote server
compose two images script
how to add watermarks to images via  - hopefully using irfanview
add visible sign in pdf from  using imagemagick
why does  leftsquarebrc $value -lt 10 rightsquarebrc   result in command not found?
functional difference between if-then and command group
awk, end of line in script
how can i do a 'where' clause ?
codeigniter  error - php fatal error: class 'ci_controller' not found
rails  on windows, strange response like  leftsquarebrc 1m leftsquarebrc 36m (2.0ms) leftsquarebrc 0m  leftsquarebrc 1m
after jenkins is installed in vagrant, cannot connect from browser
setting up shell script for vagrant setup
how to find a words in html file
shell command to get config values
, how to add "are you sure  leftsquarebrc y/n rightsquarebrc " to any command or alias?
using shell to check whether a file exists, and only if it does, execute a set of commands
, how to add "are you sure  leftsquarebrc y/n rightsquarebrc " to any command or alias?
how to install s3sync
how to install s3sync
best way to generate a random string following a specific pattern 
call a shell script from c
setting  quoted params
setting  quoted params
 argument giving invalid initialiser error
 argument giving invalid initialiser error
generating the output file name from the input file 
convert sequential images from bmp to png in ubuntu terminal
batch resize images into new folder using imagemagick
shell script for flip canvas vertical
resizing/cropping and appending 4 images
resizing images with imagemagick via shell script
shell script to change .pdf files to .png mac os 10.3
convert a directory of images into a single pdf
execute imagemagick convert in subfolders with bash script
imagemagick autonumber starting from 1
execute imagemagick convert in subfolders with bash script
ffmpeg script: image sequence conversion to tiff
composing images to a row with imagemagick
bash - passing sorted glob to command input
bash - passing sorted glob to command input
bash loop involving variables not working
add visible sign in pdf from  using imagemagick
imagemagick: generate raw image data for pdf flate embedding?
imagemagick crop huge image
convert files in good sequence
how to force imagemagick to produce single output image?
in imagemagick  how do i do a batch convert for a directory
create png/jpg file with commandline on mac
how to erase all pixels of certain color on every file inside a folder?
pdf thumbnail shell command problem - php
how to convert jpg files in subfolders to one each pdf file in one step ?
why doesn't this simple imagemagick command from the docs work?
why doesn't this simple imagemagick command from the docs work?
imagemagick text arc
imagemagick text arc
using imagemagick how can i slice up an image into several separate images?
add a .pdf file(.png basically) to the end of every page in another .pdf file
xy coordinates of each gray pixel in a png image
how to merge images ?
convert multipage pdf to a single image
imagemagick creating multiple files
imagemagick creating multiple files
how to write a bash script that cuts images into pieces using image magick?
how to write a bash script that cuts images into pieces using image magick?
how to write a bash script that cuts images into pieces using image magick?
add lines of transparent pixels to image using 
can i output multiple files to stdout and process them individually?
can i output multiple files to stdout and process them individually?
how can i convert a series of images to a pdf from the  on linux?
how can i convert a series of images to a pdf from the  on linux?
generate a value to reflect the average brightness of an image
convert grayscale image to progressive black plus transparency?
convert grayscale image to progressive black plus transparency?
imagemagick `convert -composite` working on some, not on others
add visible sign in pdf from  using imagemagick
extract layers from psd with imagemagick, preserving layout
command-line tool for converting ttf/otf fonts to svg
encoding problem when compressing files with apache commons compression on linux
show all files in directory and select the latest creation date one with windows 
calling another batch command from within batch file stops further execution
is there a way to avoid positional arguments ?
how do i copy a file using a wildcard in windows without appending?
concatenate text files with windows , dropping leading lines
how to test a vs c# program on another computer
how to create a file from  without redirect or external utils?
verify coq theorems in build script?
even after limit is reached, condition is not getting true
while loop 
bash: iterate through files based on regex parameter
bash: iterate through files based on regex parameter
copy values between variables  script
get the highest value from a variable using bash script
how do i make a shell scripted automated and read current time?
how do i make a shell scripted automated and read current time?
how to copy multiple files from a different directory using cp, variable and brackets?
shell sed command
shell copying file with biggest size to another folder
sh script to copy the lastast version
script to loop and copy all files from command output
bash script in agi-bin fails to execute - asterisk
copy a file into a subdirectory and rename it
copy a file into a subdirectory and rename it
copy a file into a subdirectory and rename it
copy a file into a subdirectory and rename it
bash cp command and quotes
how can i prevent a directory from being removed in rsync
blank space in directory name causing error
blank space in directory name causing error
bash: edit file component from variable?
bash: for loop, copy, backup
perl -pe to manipulate filenames
restore .bak files
how can i use terminal to copy and rename files from multiple folders?
bash: edit file component from variable?
using bash for loop variable several times in the same statement
md5 hash to identify and archive images
md5 hash to identify and archive images
bash copy with variable
shell script : appending directory path and filename
bash batch file rename
make a backup copy of several files matching a pattern
how to copy the dynamic file name and append some string while copying into other directory 
how to copy the dynamic file name and append some string while copying into other directory 
understanding cp 
cp non-hidden files only
cp: copy all files with a certain extension from all subdirectories
find files in os x by creation time, date is irrelevant to the search
linux: copy all files using the * wildcard that contain the word file
moving a directory tree with only some of the files
how to copy a file and all the directories that comform his path
bash: copy named files recursively, preserving folder structure
cp command to overwrite the destination file which is a symbolic link
copy a directory on the current path to the same path with a different name 
copy a directory on the current path to the same path with a different name 
copy a directory on the current path to the same path with a different name 
moving files between users from shell in mountain lion
move a file to other drive via cygwin/unix ($ cp -r ..)
is it possible to send output to a variable ?
is it possible to send output to a variable ?
is it possible to send error output to a variable ?
moving files between users from shell in mountain lion
cp -a cannot overwrite symlinked directory
is this correct way to copy symlinked directory ?
infinitely looped path when trying to copy output files
linux copy symbolic link
make multiple copies of files with a shell script
bash script to safely create symlinks?
force cp to overwrite when -i option used by defaul
understanding a shell script code using expand function
how to get error output and store it in a variable or file
how to get error output and store it in a variable or file
creation and copy directories
how to copy all of the files from one directory to another in a bash script
bash: how to copy directory's files if present
copying folders and files using wildcards
iteratively copy a directory's contents to multiple other directories in os x terminal (bash)
copy-item no target directory
copy-item no target directory
backticks returns filename with spaces and surrounding command fails
copy multiple files of one type into another directory 
list copied files 
how to copy  all directory and files recursive?
centos: copy directory to another directory
bash script to copy directory to multiple other directories
shell script move and copy
how to copy directories into a directory using install ?
shell command to copy a directory to another location
how to recursively copy directories starting with "abc" on linux/unix?
can i use shell wildcards to select filenames ranging across double-digit numbers (e.g., from foo_1.jpg to foo_54.jpg)?
handling spaces with 'cp'
how to copy multiple files from a different directory using cp?
how to copy multiple files from a different directory using cp?
how to copy multiple files from a different directory using cp?
 for copying a file named for its parent directory
bash, executable runs  but not in script
unix tty command and file command?
unix tty command and file command?
copy multiple files from one directory to another from linux shell
bash converting double quotes to single quotes
i need to know what exactly this will do: (grep & xargs)
adding script files to an xcode archive
zsh: expand a previous argument in the current 
zsh: expand a previous argument in the current 
zsh: expand a previous argument in the current 
whm / cpanel : manage wheel group users and ssk keys access
how to copy all extensions bash script
generating variations with bash
shell - multiple commands in one line
shell - multiple commands in one line
mkdir foobar with todays date and then give foobar a variables name
bash variable character replacement ends up to an empty string or a command not valid
copying contents on a variable filename ing
copy a file using a makefile at runtime
copy multiple files with certain prefixs
copying files with specific size to other directory
how to use cp from stdin?
copying a list of files via terminal
pass output as an argument for cp 
pass output as an argument for cp 
customizing a zsh shell
how to specify a set of strings  arguments
creating a docx file in git bash
how to update a shell script from within itself
cp copy command with bash brace expansion
linux commands to copy one file to many files
linux commands to copy one file to many files
bash script to duplicate file in place changing the name
move files to another folder, including creation date in filename
move files to another folder, including creation date in filename
bash trick to copy files to a previously visited directory
cp filename* backup/* (bash)
bash script to copy numbered files in reverse order
storing error message of command output into a shell variable
how i can take backup of file on unix-aix?
how can i get the current date in yyyy-mm-dd format in (os x) bash?
how to swap out to a new file a running process output is redirecting to, without restarting the command?
how do i make cp give an error if a file doesn't exist
copying from mount share drive to local folder through script
copying from mount share drive to local folder through script
how to copy files to a particular folder where i have the filenames inside a file?
struggling to combine two greps statements
bash executing the result of a command
bash executing the result of a command
copy multiple files with certain prefixs
running emacs from the  and handling locked files
cp: silence "omitting directory" warning
script to find words inside a given word from wordlist
bash error in perl script using html::scrubber
parsing json file using sed or perl
how would you bash script to combine cp and cd or mv and cd
how would you bash script to combine cp and cd or mv and cd
bash for splitting and auto cropping pdf files
how to find whether the content copying of pdf file is allowed or not?
bash for splitting and auto cropping pdf files
bash: set array within braces in a while loop? (sub-shell problem)
how can i create directories during a copy /zsh/ksh?
how can i create directories during a copy /zsh/ksh?
get predefined macros from gcc without temporary files
get predefined macros from gcc without temporary files
export id and column then later use these values to update the specified rows
save postgresql shell output to file using windows
bash retrieve input from createdb command in ingres put into variable in wrapper script.. thank you in advance
bash retrieve input from createdb command in ingres put into variable in wrapper script.. thank you in advance
svn | awk | mail works , but not in cron job
redirect stderr with date to log file from cron
saving crontab files
how do i write a bash script to restart a process if it dies?
how to run shell script  x everyday or set a timing?
copying / tarring files that have been modified in the last 14 days
svn: force svn daemon to run under different user
running debian bash file as cron job
shell crontab not working
bash - most efficient method of setting this script as a timed/routine event?
how can i run same command in a shell every 3h
how to write bash script that autoruns every 10 min?
how to schedule a shell script  centos?
how to create a bash script that every 5 minutes insert a record in a log file?
how to run script file on ubuntu every time ubuntu starts
how to automate execution of commands by day and hour on debian?
using wget and cron to download webpages
how to use cron and codeigniter/php to query a mysql database?
bash - most efficient method of setting this script as a timed/routine event?
bash - most efficient method of setting this script as a timed/routine event?
run two commands with a crontab
write a shell script to add job to cron
search for a cronjob with crontab -l
enable/disable tasks in crontab by bash/shell
enable/disable tasks in crontab by bash/shell
what is the risk when editing crontab file without the "crontab -e" command?
what is the risk when editing crontab file without the "crontab -e" command?
setting crontab from bash script
setting crontab from bash script
find wordpress hooks and filters using vim or similar
send custom action data via  for visual studio installer
how is it possible to view windows environment variable without executing arguments within it?
how to get the datetime in an internationally agnostic way from the windows command-line?
how can i open a message box in a windows batch file?
how to add custom http headers to iis from the 
change access server connection from 
how to post a http request from 
entering cshell from bash
entering cshell from bash
how to run a csh script from a sh script
split a file into x files where file names are numbered
awk to merge lines based on 1st character
is it possible to paginate stdout?
split a database of mol2 molecules into n smaller sets
writing command output to file
commandline csv viewer
commandline csv viewer
csv optional quote with gawk
how to browse each version of each element archived?
clearcase: how to find elements that do not have a particular label
find recent checkouts in clearcase and feed file paths to xlsvtree to view file history
a  or a script who is able to display each version of each element archived in a vob since the beginning?
ctags for shell scripts without extensions
how can i ignore this .build folder for ctags?
unexpected output from cat `bash` command
how to use curl in a shell script?
curl: empty file  script
shell script for string replacement of html file
adding support for scp and sftp for curl on linux
wget and curl aren't working with wikipedia
how to properly handle a gzipped page when using curl?
curl to access a page that requires a login from a different page
curl - scanning a website's source
possible to use a httpclient  script? for sessionbased http get and post
how to submit an html form without browser automatically and periodically?
linux bash post values to php
trying to creat and publish a git repository using git api, can't get bash to use my variable in the commands
post file from bash shell script
posting text file using curl  and php script on receiver end
help with a curl command and reading from a file
possible to use a httpclient  script? for sessionbased http get and post
http testing on the , is there something better than curl?
how to make a shell script fail the build on unsuccesfull execution?
how do i determine if a web page exists with shell scripting?
cannot get imgur v3 api request to authorize using curl or other bash utility
is there a way to add users automatially into gitlab?
curl upload command using bash & terminal
how to post url in data of a curl request
how to post url in data of a curl request
how to post url in data of a curl request
how to post url in data of a curl request
how do i execute an http put ?
file size 0 bytes when uploaded curl ftp
curl to access a page that requires a login from a different page
how to evaluate http response codes from bash/shell script?
curl: grabbing liveleak video
using wget to get the result of google translate
using wget to get the result of google translate
bash - post : send image in message content
store files to filepicker.io from the ?
how to use the post command to send a file?
curl: from php to bash
curl fails to send post data over 1024 bytes via 
python script to simulate a get request + receive the results
how do i translate this  curl into php curl?
couchdb curl windows  invalid json
use html output of php 
bash curl get request raw headers
read the output of a command(multiple lines)
sed matching greedier than expected
print head from site in perl
curl "write out" value of specific header
use curl to download a dropbox folder via shared link (not public link)
providing opts to piped bash script
scripting other scripts that call less and require user input to continue
could someone please explain this bash command?
i'm not using rvm correctly - 'forgets' information on new session
shell scripting - pipes and redirection
how do i preserve the remote filename when downloading a file using curl
cannot install npm using curl
how do i curl multiple resources in one command?
autocomplete git  not working?
curl - uploading an excel file over ftps
adding support for scp and sftp for curl on linux
is it possible to remove a remote repository on github through the ?
curl command to test the api
curl post request for wordpress install
send/post xml file using curl 
how to do http-request/call with json payload from command-line?
how to use http-delete from the shell
wget your google location history daily
wget your google location history daily
curl  login (bash)
wget keep session equivalence curl
how to use curl post method while the login info is required?
how do you print received cookie info to stdout with curl?
upload file after login using curl shell script
bash incrementing array values script
error while uploading image on imgur via curl
easiest way to make a post action to a uri
extract value via osx terminal from .html for "curl" submission within a single script
extract value via osx terminal from .html for "curl" submission within a single script
curl: pass a named paramter from stdin
curl: pass a named paramter from stdin
hide variable application result from bash output
trigger xdebug when calling using curl
is it possible to access mongodb's profile from the  programatically?
curl sendmail via bash
redirect curl output to stdout and log files
how to (not) pass empty quoted variables as arguments to commands
how to download a file using curl
bash stop curl outputting to screen
bash stop curl outputting to screen
get text from response of shell command
get text from response of shell command
save file to specific folder with curl command
command building & string escaping 
grab just the first filename from a zip file stream?
grab just the first filename from a zip file stream?
how do i determine if a web page exists with shell scripting?
how do i determine if a web page exists with shell scripting?
bash script comparing file sizes issue
shell integer expression expected?
jenkins shell script variable assignment fails when parsing curl response
jenkins shell script variable assignment fails when parsing curl response
how to get curl to output only http response body (json) and no other headers etc
i need to execute a curl script on jenkins so as to check the status url
script assign variable based on curl output
how do i append to an existing string variable inside a loop ?
url to download latest version of apache (httpd)?
get text between two strings 
how do i get curl to not show the progress bar?
is there any way around using temporary files when you want to extract discontinuous lines?
bash: output result of function into sed parameters
how to determine the latest major and full kernel version string as compactly as possible
how to determine the latest major and full kernel version string as compactly as possible
how to determine the latest major and full kernel version string as compactly as possible
how to get dict value from shell script?
purpose of double angle brackets on the bash ?
how to determine the latest major and full kernel version string as compactly as possible
properly using curl --data-urlencode when passing a variable
curl - exclamation mark in user auth/password
substituting into double quotes?
using all files in a directory with curl?
how do i use a variable in the --data section of a curl command?
using curl to send json within a bash script
how to pass over an authentication window from with terminal?
how to clone repository with password via bash script
curl: bypass proxy for localhost
upload to s3 with curl using pre-signed url (getting 403)
sending post via curl error
terminal: curl | walk to jsonpath | prettyprint json
automatically add newline at end of curl command
store average time from ping command in ruby on rails
how to tell curl to check file existence before download?
selectively using 'grep --after-context' on one term but not another
expanding variable in curl
just found malicious php code
copying local files with curl
how to download a file through file uri scheme ?
shell script , curl: (6) couldn't resolve host in
convert an html expandable list into tabular or csv format
bash quoting problem
how to automatically snapshot a volume of an amazon ec2 instance?
format wrapped text to indent several spaces when using sed-like utilities in os x
use awk to query a remote page directly in osx
what is the meaning of !#:3?
download all images in a folder
using terminal to record/save a data stream
why is the console output returning to the beginning of the line? or why is my concatenation not concatenating?
pipe params into script
curl to download and upload same file simultaneously
how to call a php page uri from bash on a local nginx server
passing parameters to bash when executing a script fetched by curl
how do i get curl to not show the progress bar?
possible to create burn-after-execute temp file in one line?
pass result of curl request to mysql 
how to invoke a servlet from bash
how to write a web page to a txt file and using the first line as a variable
how to update node.js and coffeescript version via terminal on mac?
npm no longer working
passing shell script variables to remote php file via curl
what does it mean "bash  leftanglebrc   leftanglebrc ( curl http://rvm.io/releases/rvm-install-head )"
how to improve this perl/bash one-liner to deserialize json data
parsing json with sed and awk
how to pass a string with spaces as http post data using curl
create a php script(model) in codeigniter which is triggered via  to create a csv file of a database
create a php script(model) in codeigniter which is triggered via  to create a csv file of a database
how do i download a file from a variable url via shell?
bash curl post a binary variable
convert an html expandable list into tabular or csv format
newbie in snort
error installing gcutil on cygwin
piping reference for "install=y sh"
, is it possible to "cat" a file over http?
execute a remote python script, locally with additional arguments
how to properly construct a bash command argument?
methods to detect public ip address 
getting correct output in a shell script from the curl command
how do i access a node.js server from 
wait for parallel remote process to finish bash ssh
what are the curl smtp  arguments to support gmail tls/starttls vs ssl
use sed to grab a string
cron jobs not running but http://file.php runs fine from browser?
bash: how do i store the value returned from a website into a varuable
extract value via osx terminal from .html for "curl" submission within a single script
extract value via osx terminal from .html for "curl" submission within a single script
extract value via osx terminal from .html for "curl" submission within a single script
extract value via osx terminal from .html for "curl" submission within a single script
extract value via osx terminal from .html for "curl" submission within a single script
extract value via osx terminal from .html for "curl" submission within a single script
improving the efficiency of pre-caching files on a server
how to add/use a variable to my bashrc file?
adding two decimal variables and assigning values 
run a bash including a variable in the "bash xxx.sh" command
unexpected eof while looking for matching `
why subtraction return - symbol
extracting text from line
trim first 9 letters using awk, sed
get the first 5 characters from each line 
fasta: delete sequences after n length
print first 80 char in a line  pipe
shell script to read and print a part of a string
how can i remove the time-stamp from the contents of a log file
check if string exist in non-consecutive lines in a given column
basic stream/sed? bash script, perform substring on each line
find all words in file with specific offset in each line (bash)
what are some one-liners that can output unique elements of the nth column to another file?
how to restrict length of string present in a line using linux
cut a file whose name contains a space
unix command to delete 1st,2nd and 5th character from each line of a file?
bash/unix toolchain binary stream processing/slicing
cut command not extracting fields properly by default delimiter
how to take a specific part of a line in a file using shell commands?
deleting columns from text files with sed
use space as a delimiter with cut command
find all words in file with specific offset in each line (bash)
how to use cut command  to show all columns except those indicated?
bash script to read a file
using cut with unprintable delimiters
how can i get the content of this string surrounded by single-quote
use shell utilities for equivalent of sql group by on a csv file
awk: extract specific columns from delimited file
bash disagrees with my pipes, refuses to do the full command
keep only second attribute from each line
keep only second attribute from each line
keep only second attribute from each line
using 'for' 
want to read file line by line and then want to cut the line on delimiter
extract email addresses from text file using regex with bash or 
selecting cron entry using awk or grep
convert string to numbers and minus sign
extract a column from a line in a bash script
extract a column from a line in a bash script
sed script to print the first three words in each line
grep and print back reference
remove first word in text stream
erasing with sed
linux bash cut first word from each line of a file, assign it to an array and remove duplicates
how to fetch ip address from a log file?
printing first word in every line of a txt file unix bash
awk sum of large integers
awk sum of large integers
how can i delete the second word of every line of top(1) output?
extract a column from many files and paste together in a single file
awk: chop stuff off beginning of line according to regex
extracting a pattern using sed command
using cut command to remove multiple columns
using cut command to remove multiple columns
using cut command to remove multiple columns
how to delete the words with the pattern in text file
addressing a specific occurrence of a character in sed
bash method to remove last 4 columns from csv file
bash input/output redirect doesn't work
using cut command to remove multiple columns
unix , delete first column using awk
how to print a range of columns in a csv in awk?
choose all variables after $var_no_n
awk + how to read csv file with quotation mark
how to convert the script from using command,read to commmand,cut?
logging a table and appending other text data to a .csv file in python
get linux kernel version like this "310" ?
linux + how to cut partial number from long number ( version number )
a file executed from crontab returns different results than from 
how to extract patterns form a text files  bash
how do i sed/grep the last word in a filename?
get the path after "n" directory in the whole path
show different context on different grep keyword?
need an awk/sed/cut alternative for an simple looking isssue on tcpdump output
get username from passwd file using shell scripting
bash, extract string before a colon
bash: create multiple users from text file
combine columns from different files
how do i modify a text field with awk?
print out the string between first two “;” 
cut and awk command 
removing parts of string with sed
parameter substitution
automatically delete columns from a csv file
bash get string after character
find a string in a file name (shell script)
bash: getting percentage from a frequency table
bash awk first 1st column and 3rd column with everything after
need for performance  script
print all columns but first delimited by pattern, bash
take lasts characters from every line of a file
unary operator with a while loop 
how to extract the first column from a file with tab-separated columns
using grep invert function to compare two md5 hash lists
print out only the first column in a non-standard csv file
how can i remove all text after a character ?
get the first column of comm output
sed: batch - combining 3 columns of x, y, z values into 1 column in order of x, y and z last
how to count number of unique values of a field in a tab-delimited text file?
how to count number of unique values of a field in a tab-delimited text file?
about awk shell and pipe 
how can i extract the part of a line included between ":"?
how can i remove suffix of string in cut result (bash)?
how can i remove suffix of string in cut result (bash)?
linux - get text from second tab
counting unique values in a column with a shell script
how can i get 2nd and third column in tab delim file ?
remove everything around a given pattern
shell script cut command
extract a piece of a string ?
awk command to parse grep
how to verify information using standard linux/unix filters?
how to verify information using standard linux/unix filters?
sort and uniq oneliner
sort and uniq oneliner
unix - need to cut a file which has multiple blanks as delimiter - awk or cut?
bash script to find old files based off date in file name
how to acquire specific revision of a newly added file from cvs via ?
windows batch command to ignore some file lines?
how to acquire specific revision of a newly added file from cvs via ?
command-line cvs update and local delete of a directory
escaping backslash in windows paths passed to unix programs
escaping backslash in windows paths passed to unix programs
escaping backslash in windows paths passed to unix programs
string substution 
escaping backslash in windows paths passed to unix programs
new cygwinshell in own window
new cygwinshell in own window
bash: how to keep restarting a windows cmd prompt
shell script: assignment or operator (a= b || c)
replacing $_get to make it work from 
replacing $_get to make it work from 
executing shell command from ruby console returning permission denied error?
modify list of file according to date 
what :a, ba mean in "sed -e :a -e '$d;n;2,5ba' -e 'p;d' file"?
how can i send parameter to awk using shell script
shell:nested for loop
debug php  script in phpstorm
delete file with odd character in filename
bash script - string comparison yields unexpected result
bash script - string comparison yields unexpected result
small issue with regex in sed
adding a sql alias statement to an sql select * from command in vb.net
adding a sql alias statement to an sql select * from command in vb.net
writing bash script to change text and write to a log
edit functions  - awk
edit functions  - awk
how can i use groovy to execute a shell command that has backticks?
how to set a variable from the bash $ps1
 bash, how to display current date and time without punctuation?
using unix date in os x (10.6) bash is causing "illegal time format" error
how to keyboard type a variable using xdotool?
how to keyboard type a variable using xdotool?
how to redirect grep output to a variable?
bash - getting next month script?
how to rename an existing file with today's date
bash time to mysql datetime
bash scripting variable allocation when using here-document
get the substring from a filename and compare to hour (hh) of current date/timestamp using shell script
searching for a certain timeframe using awk does not work
searching for a certain timeframe using awk does not work
get current time in hours and minutes
extract the minute value from the date
unix $random function not random  terminal
using unix date in os x (10.6) bash is causing "illegal time format" error
get formated time before midnight  on mac os
execute command in script based on year
previous day date  script
how to get the current time string before 10 a clock ?
 bash, how to display current date and time without punctuation?
yyyy-mm-dd format date 
prepend date to a filename in a shell script
`date` command on os x doesn't have iso 8601 `-i` option?
displaying last modification date
shell script to get time ('%t'), how to reformat output (- instead of :)
yyyy-mm-dd format date 
formatting with bash date is not consistent
bash beginner: error when tries to copy directory itself when making subdirectories
linux shell script : make a folder with the current date name
getting specific part of output 
forcing "date" to use a locale other than the machine default
shell script connect three commands
unix shell scripting - bug in command
date checker script
how to format the date in kornshell script to dd-mon-yyyy?
formatting the date /linux
increment date stored in variable bash
how to do date calculations ing?
extracting password protected files in a if loop 
how to modify a file name within a shell script?
bash script using mailx to mail attachment
get current time in seconds since the epoch on linux, bash
linux shell date question
, how to profile the running time of some part of my script?
how to covert strings like "19-feb-12" to epoch date 
how to convert a date hh: mm: ss in second with bash?
bash script: checking today's date against a date without year
bash file set variable as epoch time
bash file set variable as epoch time
bash: how can i subtract two time strings using bash?
convert hh:mm:ss.mm to seconds 
how to set date/time from unix timestamp under bash
how to convert time format from "2010-10-08 00:00:01" to "1286467201" in awk
why subtraction return - symbol
shell: how to create a unique temporary file path cross-platform?
shell: how to create a unique temporary file path cross-platform?
linux script simple arithmetic code
can i get utc offset from unix ?
zsh/shell variable assignment/usage
sprintf ing?
read date in a file and add one day
getting date of x days ago  script, using argument variable
define variable to hold non-current date 
adding timestamps to csv-file 
subtract days from a date 
subtract days from a date 
how to use shell variables in perl command call in a bash shell script?
how to get last year's date  bourne shell?
how to covert strings like "19-feb-12" to epoch date 
technique to compute next day's date from a date supplied via an arg?
how to format date for tar backup?
bash script: checking today's date against a date without year
how  script receive tuesday before last tuesday?
how can i get and format yesterday's date on the ?
access position parameters in multi-command inline alias/command
get the last day of the last month in csh?
get the last day of the last month in csh?
get the last day of the last month in csh?
increment date with awk for few days and months
bash - extract date from string and reformat
incorrect date/time parameter
convert common log format (ncsa) to timestamp /shell?
converting gmt time to epoch script
getting the epoch time for a custom date values 
how to increase a date within a loop 
get monday and sunday etc.. for a week for any date as parameter 
get monday and sunday etc.. for a week for any date as parameter 
linux bash - date format
converting time to unix timestamp
illegal number 
combining awk scripts for apache logs
unix / bash: listing files modified in specific month
calculating time (adding minutes) bash
calculating time (adding minutes) bash
calculating time (adding minutes) bash
unix stat time format
unix stat time format
how to convert time string to timestamp
formatting with bash date is not consistent
how to get date fields and manipulate them
date format 
convert milliseconds timestamp to date from unix 
how to make both readable and calculable date/time ?
how can i convert linux "date +%s" output to a more readable format  script
shell scripting - spaces in variables?
getting human readable date from epoch into variable
bash more effective use of sed / awk
"this friday"  script
bash, get current time in milliseconds since midnight
bash, get current time in milliseconds since midnight
obtaining yesterday 
get yesterday's date  on linux, dst-safe
bash validate date
getting the epoch time for a custom date values 
bash script to find old files based off date in file name
how can i change the format of a date from the ?
create a bash date/time variable from argument
how to convert date to unix timestamp  on macos
linux shell date question
how to convert date to unix timestamp  on macos
how to covert strings like "19-feb-12" to epoch date 
last modified date of a directory in osx
formatted modified date/time on mac bash?
stock date in a string then split it for tests
modify list of file according to date 
modify list of file according to date 
displaying last modification date
populate datatabase table with timestamp using sqlplus inside a shell script
how to convert zsh ls timestamps to %y-%m-%d?
json datetime between bash script and javascript
how to find time in sh scripting
how to find time in sh scripting
get utc date of last commit
`date` command on os x doesn't have iso 8601 `-i` option?
how to remove only the duplication file under some directory ( with the same cksum )
convert seconds to formatted time 
how do i do date math in a bash script on os x leopard?
get the last day of the last month in csh?
get the last day of the last month in csh?
get the last day of the last month in csh?
how do i use output from awk in another command?
bash script to awk the date from unix
round down to nearest 5 minutes
bash scripting: using $( to assign variables
shell script connect three commands
how to get current timestamp when using ps in a bash script?
redirect multple stdout commands to one file
how can i split and re-join stdout from multiple processes?
how to log the time taken for a unix command?
php: system timezone setting error
shell scripting - spaces in variables?
format a number string to date
naming a tar file with date
in a linux script, is it possible to execute multiple commands in the same process?
running db2 sql from shell  does not finishing execution
how to access tables with same name different case in db2
how to access tables with same name different case in db2
how to access tables with same name different case in db2
how to access tables with same name different case in db2
how to access tables with same name different case in db2
how to access tables with same name different case in db2
how to access tables with same name different case in db2
running db2 sql from shell  does not finishing execution
how to extract version from a single  ?
how to supply an input value to the prompt via shell script?
how to supply an input value to the prompt via shell script?
how to supply an input value to the prompt via shell script?
postgres  statement: insert complains about non-existing column
passing string into bash script
how to load into a database using dbisql from a shell script?
linux shell: vlc programming
linux shell: vlc programming
controlling gnome volume using dbus
bash - refer to parameters using variable
how to store a string (line) in an awk variable
can you rename a shell session by command ?
modifying font size using shell script
how to avoid linux command messages 
how do i get an equivalent of /dev/one 
how to create a fixed size file which is initialized with fixed word?
using dd to change a hex value in android script
generate file filled with content from a set of files with any size in a given range
generate a random file using shell script
grab a random number of bytes from a file with bash?
how to create multiple files with random data with bash
how to read from block special and character special devices  using bash shell scripts?
how can i replace the first few bytes of a files with random data?
is there a command to write random garbage bytes into a file?
is there a shell one-liner to determine if a block device contains all 0's?
how to create a cpu spike with a bash command
how to create a cpu spike with a bash command
what is the command dd if=/dev/sdb do?
linux: outputting dd results to a text file
when executing "tar" on a directory with over a billion files, the process stayed in d status
how to redirect output from dd command to /dev/null?
how to redirect output from dd command to /dev/null?
how to create loop partition from already existing partition
bash problem to fill a file 'til a determined size
replacing fixed amount of text in a large file
seek_hole always point to the end of file
how to create a file with a given size ?
what is the general syntax of a unix shell command?
short/long options with option argument - is this some sort of convention?
bash: substitute some bytes in a binary file
getting one line in a huge file with bash
copy system file without shell cp command
grab a random number of bytes from a file with bash?
how to extract the first x-megabyte from a large file /linux
how to flush a pipe using bash
which log file or how do i locate this log file?
linux shell command to read/print file chunk by chunk
how to create a file with any given size ?
shell command to find a process id and attach to it?
how to change the language of my git?
large number base conversion
hex to dec conversion (pipe with sed)
linux script: reinterpret environment variable
got stuck in dynamically allocating an associative array 
sorting files into directories based on their name
bash associative array error
bash: assign "key -- rightanglebrc  value" in new array based on old array
problems in appending elements to associative array 
got stuck in dynamically allocating an associative array 
how to use an array with remote variable on remote server ing?
declare array but not define the array ( shell scripting)
read array with spaces
bash combine two arrays
how to exit from perl and return a results array
extracting data from a column in a csv file with headers and input into an array 
how to list included bash functions?
how to list included bash functions?
how to list included bash functions?
bash: based on user input run all commands in a function on local or on remote machine
how can you access an environment variable that has a space in its name ?
bash check if variable is array
is there a way to determine the pure functions?
how do i declare a constant variable ?
how to list all exported bash functions?
how to list all exported bash functions?
how variable assignment to be processed ?
how to get the array name from a variable
error executing command 
bash dynamic variable names
how to set variables inside a linux for loop
reading vaues from table and editing text file with that values using bash
connect to ftp using .netrc with multiple accounts
run a bash including a variable in the "bash xxx.sh" command
handling login in an automated backup script
how to instruct capistrano to use zsh instead of bash?
which id is for launchpad in hot corners defaults?
add app to osx "login items" during a package maker installer postflight script
does any one how to execute this cmd through shell script?
modify sub key in *plist files
delete contents of a directory recursively on windows
del saying path doesn't exist (it does)
how to clear shell values of python?
need to execute ftp commands from batch script
stdout to file1, stderr to file2, both correctly interleaved to stdout and file
removing the subscript/index of an array in awk
shell script that iterates through a sql "delete" statement
running monit as a restricted user and making it watch a process that needs root privileges
using mysql  client
how can i get visual studio to use /runexit and provide my programs  arguments?
how can i get visual studio to use /runexit and provide my programs  arguments?
open a file in visual studio at a specific line number
visual studio 2010 command to edit file in same instance
visual studio 2010 command to edit file in same instance
give the mount point of a path
awk print second column of last line
return inode usage in solaris
how to print multiple line from variable  to html output
grep on a single column 
df nice output format in emails
how to extract specific information from textfile table unix/shell scripting
transpose columns to rows 
linux, sorting on n column
linux, sorting on n column
find partition size using df and awk
how to remove last character ?
using awk and df (disk free) to show only mount name and space used
using awk and df (disk free) to show only mount name and space used
how to prepend timestamp to the stderr and redirect to a file
problem printing string 
head outputting text on single line without linebreaks
how to collect hdd size and available or used space  cli?
how to collect hdd size and available or used space  cli?
how to collect hdd size and available or used space  cli?
cut command not returning correct output
check disk space for current directory 
mac command - check free space on usb?
mac command - check free space on usb?
check disk space for current directory 
script for file system monitoring aix
script for file system monitoring aix
how to omit heading in df -k command of sunos
how to omit heading in df -k command of sunos
command to get number before % 
awk removing space from output
awk removing space from output
awk removing space from output
awk removing space from output
awk removing space from output
awk removing space from output
bash script modifications for free space monitoring purpose
bash script modifications for free space monitoring purpose
mounted volumes & bash in osx
selecting specific values on script bash
searching for "/" using awk
searching for "/" using awk
determine what hard drive a file or directory is on?
how to find the amount of space in a directory or the partition directory is in
linux command df extract "name" and "available space"
combine two strings and remove duplicate characters
dialog vs. '\n'
dialog --menu selected option
dialog - text on one line
bash scripting run from rc.local
use bash count every word's occurrence in a file
how to create anonymous error pipes of complex commands for diff?
diff output from two programs without temporary files
how to execute diff on outputs of two scripts without creating temporary files?
an easy way to diff log files, ignoring the time stamps?
pipe two different outputs into a command that takes two inputs
php passing strings to external diff command
using two here strings
how can you diff two pipelines ?
see if list of rows exists in a file
checking equality of a part of two files
how to diff top lines of two files without intermediate file
bash diff body text of html file only
send string to stdin
how to compare two columns of ip and hostnames grepped from multiple files 
, is there a way have multiple pipes to one process?
how to ignore some differences in diff command?
compare execution log's ignoring the execution times
checking equality of a part of two files
optimisation of a "search and grab" sh script
unix sed command sort and compare
compare two files ignoring order
how to calculate file contents difference?
compare two files have slightly different sorting 
how to diff directories over ssh
checking equality of a part of two files
how to compare two tar files  without using temporary files?
redirecting the input of two commands via pipe operator 
how to find newest file in a given directory and use it in diff call
compare 2 files with shell script
how to redirect output of command to diff
how to redirect output of command to diff
given two directory trees, how can i find out which files differ?
compare zip file with dir with shell command
extract modified and added lines from two csv files using shell or diff command
git diff parse 
fast way of finding lines in one file that are not in another?
print specific lines from a linux file according to diff output
print specific lines from a linux file according to diff output
fast way of finding lines in one file that are not in another?
search all differences between two directories
comparing two json files : shell scripting
windows shell script: remove information from diff output
compare two java property files using shell script
how to count differences between two files on linux?
difference of directories using 'diff' command  without the details
diff files present in two different directories
doesn't work diff command (arguments troubles)
mac command - check free space on usb?
diff to output only the file names
given two directories, how can i know which subdirectories differ?
merge 2 svn directories into one directory automatically
preventing multiple appends to a file
does diff care about filename?
does diff care about filename?
copy after grep 
list files that are in directory1 but not in directory2 and vice versa?
formatting diff output 
recursive directory-diff accepting external diff
recursive directory-diff accepting external diff
running diff and have it stop on a difference
shell script to compare directories recursively
shell script to compare directories recursively
modify tomcat server.xml config using sed
diff -r: limit recursion?
diff multiple originals versus backups
how to compare files with same names in two different directories using a shell script
diff multiple originals versus backups
difference between 2 directories 
how do i batch "diff" files?
better way of extracting data from file for comparison
stripping single and double quotes in a string using bash / standard linux commands only
given two directory trees how to find which files are the same?
diff which folders are missing
how to get the difference (only additions) between two files 
compare two files line by line and generate the difference in another file
bash script that reads from files has garbled output
compare two java property files using shell script
compare two java property files using shell script
unix diff side-to-side results?
find multible missing lines in csv using diff
compare two java property files using shell script
a shell script problem for comparing difference between two files.  leftsquarebrc linux rightsquarebrc 
awk, compare 2 files and write out incomparables
diff two versions of a file that reside in different directories
use pipe of commands as argument for diff
use pipe of commands as argument for diff
how to: compare command output to text file with bash
fastest way of finding differences between two files ?
how to find difference in csv record
bash pipes - print certain cell from output
best way to find files recursively that have the same name but are actually different using bash?
conditional replacement of string fragment with sed (one-liner!)
diff -r: limit recursion?
diff two versions of a file that reside in different directories
locate and compare the most recent 02 files
how to get primary mx ip from domain 
bash script to check if given ip is valid a record for host
bash script to check if given ip is valid a record for host
parse dig output export csv
bash script to generate hash value using digest command
redirect stdout and stderr to a single file
script within a makefile to find out path to a toolchain genericaly
windows equivalent  find command to search multiple file types
 print file names to output file
how to batch append a directory, while skipping over files already appended
how to batch append a directory, while skipping over files already appended
how to get a list of sub-folders and their files, ordered by folder-names
find specific text in files
getting sub folders by name with windows cmd
find filenames with only one period in windows
command to list all files in a folder as well as sub-folders in windows
where is oracle sqlplus located?
creating a zipped/compressed folder in windows using powershell or the 
how to run two commands in one line in windows cmd?
double command to run programs in the command prompt
single line with multiple commands using windows batch file
single line with multiple commands using windows batch file
run weka classifiers using windows cmd line
 print file names to output file
 print file names to output file
 print file names to output file
setting variable linux
how to get file name using unix?
retrive parent directory of script
how to chop down a path in a bash script?
bash scripting: how to find the absolute path of "symlink/.."?
getting name of containing folder
get `dirname $0` of a kornshell script called by a symbolic link
how do i get the absolute directory of a file ?
running a bash script from a different location but referencing where the script is located
retrive the file system position where a bash script is saved
gwt hosted mode script windows
why is this error happening ?
when running $pwd/filename.sh is working correctly but having a error on running ./filename.sh
the script runs from  but crontab fails
bash get current directory of file after getting called by another bash script
how to find script directory in an included shell script
lftp put file in specific directory?
bash filepath to parent directory of file
m4 - executing a shell command
find file's own path
what is the shell command to get directory name using filename?
difference in behaviour while sourcing a script and executing it on a kornshell
run script from any directory
extracting directory name from an absolute path using sed or awk
unix command to get file path without basename
a generic script for running a java class in the right path
how can i change to the file destination directory using a bashrc function?
how do i get the absolute directory of a file ?
use sed without the need to write on file
translate hard drive letter into the corresponding device id (or viceversa)
eject all disks and dmg's with automator script  x
identify a mounted volume as a cd/dvd on osx
grepping correct value in 'else'
grep after grep - osx shell script
grep after grep - osx shell script
is there a way to eject all external hard drives from the ? (os x)
cannot disown z shell variable
how to stop a zsh script from being suspended (tty output)
small scale load levelling
detach process  for loop
use terminal to display image without losing focus
how to create a zip file in the same format as the finder's "compress" menu item?
cp -a cannot overwrite symlinked directory
parse dig output export csv
creating icons on application toolbar via sas autoexec (base sas)
very strange redirecting stdout and stderr issues can someone explain them?
copy files to my usb only 
formatting specific output from dmidecode
formatting specific output from dmidecode
shortcut command creation for scp linux command
how to get exit status of piped command from inside the pipeline?
how to randomize file-names with batch file command string?
script that takes a search string, searches for folders containing the string and moves them to a folder with the same name as the string
exit a bash script from a function whose output is captured
bash - rsync list of servers
strange behavior of uniq on darws
passing alias as parameter
how to detect if docker run succeeded programmatically?
coreos - get docker container name by pid
docker base image running slowly mac os x
how would i pass environment into docker using bash?
docker: bash terminal starts without prompt
for loop that takes input file is not working
 progress bar in java
 progress bar in java
zipping a file  fails
using grep to find difference between two big wordlists
find matches between 2 files
cygwin trouble running some bash commands
reading a file line by line from a shell script
unix script appends ^m at end of each line
bashrc issue in cygwin
how to automate dos2unix using shell script?
why the variable is cut while reading a file?
bash script : end of line character issue : file from excel
bash syntax error: unexpected end of file
ksh: assigning function output to an array
extract payload from tcpflow output
running script file in ubuntu
bash script works on online compiler but not with
sed creating ^m at end of line
how to address an issue while sourcing an env file ?
lines ending with ^m in my config files on ubuntu?
remove \r (cr) from csv
running linux shell script on windows environment
bash script - cant read to var
extract payload from tcpflow output
linux bash script doesn't run correctly, but when run at the  everything is fine
subversion pre-commit hook error code 255
switch statement bash script not working
bash script always prints "command not found"
cywgin not running script correctly
finding a pattern and extracting it into another file using sed 
shell:nested for loop
removing double new lines using awk/sed
view line-endings in a text file
sed and awk causing line wrap-around
field separators
why do i have end of file error here?
whats wrong with my shell script
disable command history in a windows batch file
is there any way to automatically save command history to a file .exe, similar to bash's bash_history?
tool for commandline "bookmarks" on windows?
counting the occurrence of a sub-graph in a graph
how to automate job  to produce latex files with doxygen and type command make pdf to get pdf file?
bash - propagate value of variable to outside of the loop
using one from the "grep" family. how do i get the lines i omitting the search term?
how can i determine my csh version?
checking for installed packages and if not found install
how to find version of a software installed in ubuntu
cross compile when using apt-get
how to select the nth char from a string for each line in a file?
is it possible to change the python interpreter version dreampie is using?
protecting backticks in substitution
alternative to mysql load local infile replace to update a table
how to get error and their codes in drush in a shell sh script?
installing drupal with drush make and install profile and using a bash script - how to answer yes/no?
bash script: unable to move a file to another directory
nohup - permission denied
how to check on ftp if there files on the list older than 7 days
find the highest user id  x
command not found and unexpected end of file on a line that doesn't exist mac terminal
how to enable user account smb sharing from terminal on mac os x?
how can i get iterm to use the newer version of bash that brew shows? change a user's shell on osx
get size of many files at once
execute command for every file in the current dir
bash: how can i list out the size of each file and directory (recursively) and sort by size decendingly?
bash: how can i list out the size of each file and directory (recursively) and sort by size decendingly?
script to count number of files in each directory
simple bash programming
syntax error in expression for if statement 
syntax error in expression for if statement 
get total size of a list of files 
using du to get size of specific sub directories
short command to find total size of files matching a wild card
bash script to print file names and their sizes in the current directory
bash: moving a group of files of a certain size with grep, awk and xargs
excluding hidden files from du command output with --exclude, grep -v or sed
bash /  number of bytes
regarding awk field delimiter
how to remove the filename from the end of the du -h output
how to remove the filename from the end of the du -h output
how to remove the filename from the end of the du -h output
check folder size 
move directory 
command-line parameters ?
get size of many files at once
get size of many files at once
using cmp to check for transferring files not working
using cmp to check for transferring files not working
unary operator with a while loop 
neo4j csv import sign of life
bash : sum size of same name directories
bash : sum size of same name directories
bash : sum size of same name directories
truncate output 
bash script if statement not displaying true
how to capture dvdauthor output to file
what's the correct way to redirect both stdout and stderr ?
date arithmetic  scripts
, how do i bind a function key to a command?
passing line from file as argument to puts?
, how to make control-delete mean kill-word?
windows shell, passing parameters to running instance of an application
running bash script in cygwin on windows 7
dynamic abbrev expand for the shell
java system.exit return code isn't detected by bash eval
bash - how to use arguments from previous command?
bash script: append parent directories to filenames
abstracting the conversion between id3 tags, m4a tags, flac tags
bash: grabbing output of  program execution and setting to variable
bash: grabbing output of  program execution and setting to variable
turn command output into variable and trim variable ?
turn command output into variable and trim variable ?
shell script to set amazon ec2 hostname from tags
how do i run my shell scripts in ec2?
getting id of an instance newly launched with ec2-api-tools
how to append an empty line in text file using ?
add missing newlines in multiple files
add missing newlines in multiple files
creating a file in a specific directory using bash?
bash scripting variable allocation when using here-document
bash script: syntax error: unexpected end of file
create a new file in git bash
sed command creates a file with 0 bytes
adding spaces to stdout
why these argument parsing errors?
shell script to create a static html directory listing
how to prevent bash's while loop from trimming whitespace?
how to retrieve the first word of the output of a command ?
how to retrieve the first word of the output of a command ?
unix - how to use cut -d on one word
how to echo $variable into text file within a loop
currency converter
how to grep a variable in the shell program?
how to grep a variable in the shell program?
how to grep a variable in the shell program?
bash: grepping for double quotes is failing
how can i empty a file using awk getline
execute bash script from url
compare content of two variables 
how to run the blocks of code in cli? php
unix : display x line in a file (where x is a variable)
change ampersands in href
sed and applescript shell script - strip character string
php files listing with shell_exec
linux mail adding content type headers not working
bash | adding elements in all files of a specific directory bash
generating a directory listing as webserver index page 
generating a directory listing as webserver index page 
how to combine echo and find?
cygwin/unix finding text followed after/before some pattern
cygwin/unix finding text followed after/before some pattern
cygwin/unix finding text followed after/before some pattern
cygwin/unix finding text followed after/before some pattern
how do i execute a linux command in php and echo the output in original format?
get string between strings 
get string between strings 
sed + change small and capital letter
sed script to convert wikipedia links
how do i efficiently pretty-print a list of json objects?
bash on windows while loop
use result of pipeline as argument for another command
use awk to detect regex patterns and print by line?
bluetooth pairing without gui
how do i find words that have more than two letters but do not start with a specific two letters using the glob patterns for file matching for tcsh?
bash if statement - giving up hope
bash / sed rewriting of variables for sip links
add a newline only if it doesnt exist
bash ambiguous redirect - redirect to multiple files
egrep regular expression works within php, but doesn't work at unix shell - escaping issues?
bash: export functions for use in xarg
ftp error handling
how to echo a string with any content ?
how to echo a string with any content ?
how to copy a command from history?
how to ignore bash event designator when it appears ?
print double quotes  programming
unable to add element to array 
bash parameter expansion changes original string
shell scripting: filter text & append in a variable
shell scripting: filter text & append in a variable
sed 
escape sequence for awk coprocess containing bracket
escape sequence for awk coprocess containing bracket
passing for loop results to var fails
escape double quote in grep
escape double quote in grep
trim text using sed
trim text using sed
trim text using sed
how to print #!/bin/bash using echo command
php shell script 'echo -ne' how? (shell progressbar)
replace chars in file by index
shell script : replacing and adding characters in a string
echo expanded ps1
bash: how to evaluate ps1, ps2, ...?
how do i add an internal command to bash?
capture special character from line
how to capture the result of a system call in a shell variable?
how to stop java application using a shell script
does $! mean something ing
check that there are at least two arguments given in a bash script
how to find whether a script run as a nohup finished or not?
redirecting the output of a child process
setting up log for a bash script
get the pid of the shell script and save it into a lockfile
how to have chef reload global path
how to get the process id of a bash subprocess on 
how to get the process id of a bash subprocess on 
$$ in a script vs $$ in a subshell
about shell and subshell
how do i store the results of a shell command in a makefile?
bash: back quotes and eval confusing behavior
processing list in makefile
mac os shell exec command with a pipe in it
contents of ls appearing in middle of output
unix shell script does not send intended email
script for checking the android version and then carry on installation?
cpu time of a process in android
bash for-loop on directories
outputting values into csvs - 
bash to determine file size
removing new line character from pipes delimited file for lines not starting with timestamp
echo to file without new line
create an auto-installer using curl and how to pass the args?
create an auto-installer using curl and how to pass the args?
bash round minutes to 5
bash round minutes to 5
combine two shell commands into one output 
logoff/reboot/shut-down/quit script but how to do the logging?
rss date  to epoch
rss date  to epoch
rss date  to epoch
append text to stderr redirects 
mac os x echo $(date) in .bash_profile gives stale date
bash store values in an array and check difference of each value
bash for inline command
bash - diference between echo `basename $home` and echo $(basename $home)
shell script cut command
escape history expansion exclamation mark ! inside command substitution $()
escape function  programming
how do i assign the value of grep into a variable and concatenate with a string?
escape function  programming
executing a piped command in a subshell doesn't work if the command is in a variable
how to generate a list with brace expansion in specific order
expr command not working 
are these bash statements all equivalent?
how do you print the days until a deadline from the ?
restart a bunch of servers, keeping only a few down during the restart
script for checking the android version and then carry on installation?
variable in backtick statement
extract all numbers from a text file and store them in another file
combine two linux command to show as single string
mac os shell exec command with a pipe in it
combine output of two command  system
combine output of two command  system
output on a single line
bash nslookup runs unmotivated ls
is is possible to put into clipboard the result of a shell command?
echo ps while preserving newlines?
retrieve absolute path given relative- linux shell
bash function - return parent script file path
unix stat time format
extract all numbers from a text file and store them in another file
unix: replace newline w/ colon, preserving newline before eof
bash script variable output not working
is is possible to put into clipboard the result of a shell command?
like to store all command-line arguments to a bash script into a single variable
how to tell which unix shell i am using?
script is re-reading arguments
prevent * to be expanded in the bash script
how do i write to a file from a function in terminal
pitfalls in renaming files 
print variable "$1" as string  script
print variable "$1" as string  script
bash: check current day time against "allow string"
regarding argument passing through shell script issue
how to access to array element when passed to function
passing find result to custom script
linux adding filename and path to text file on a single line
how to handle decimal value s
bash indexof substring after nth character
problem 
in a bash script, use /dev/stdin for first of multiple  inputs in wrapped script
bash function parameters by index - difference between head and echo
bash function parameters by index - difference between head and echo
bash script to convert windows path to linux path
bash find and move files with ' leftsquarebrc   rightsquarebrc ' in name
bash: back quotes and eval confusing behavior
unix: double quote and $ is removing exactly one digit
unix: double quote and $ is removing exactly one digit
bash script checking if gpg signature is valid and belongs to a key
how to ensure yum install was successful in a shell script?
shell while loop no stopping
what is the php exec() return value?
shell script - send a message to a remote machine and wait the answer
create array in loop from number of arguments
what's the correct way to redirect both stdout and stderr ?
getting retrieving exact input to bash from 
get the list of arguments sent to a shell script
bourne shell script to print out last argument
how to check if a line has the right syntax like this?
how to check if a line has the right syntax like this?
adding comma between  parameter
adding comma between  parameter
dividing double-precision shell variables in a shell script
how extract last part of string ?
how to decrypt an aes password  scripting?
calling a python function from a shell script
input from with
how to cut all tabulations and whitespaces linux shell?
how to cut all tabulations and whitespaces linux shell?
shell script to find a string with spaces and wrap with quotes
shell script to find a string with spaces and wrap with quotes
filename not printing correctly with underscore "_" 
how to capture  parameters after source
confused - which shell do i really have?
how can i get iterm to use the newer version of bash that brew shows? change a user's shell on osx
setting ubuntu system variable when value starts with?
filter lines by pattern  script
java classpath variable in rhel 5.4
redirection operator is limiting columns
simple shell script does not append to file
how to escape wildcard expansion in a variable ?
output the names of copied files 
bash, copy files listed in a text file one by one
what's the error in this bash script?
bash break line with sed?
counting directories on unix
counting directories on unix
variables inside of `ssh` execution and formatting
variables inside of `ssh` execution and formatting
bash directory variable error
dropbox uploader modification
how can i split parts of a bash variable separated with tabs?
how can i split parts of a bash variable separated with tabs?
do zsh or bash have quotes that are convenient for english text?
mac os x - bash default pathname expansion or bug
using echo to pipe a string with c style comments
shell scripting: echo vs save to variable
how can i get the output of a command into a bash variable?
how can i get the output of a command into a bash variable?
im trying to perform two string comparisons with an "if" and an "or"
cut out number in files named after a pattern
how can i use bash to parse out only a section of a variable with different delimiters?
nesting  script with variables
retrieving  history
what's the different between ` and ' in programming, such as mysql and shells
using sed with html data
echo $http as plain text
how to escape a single quote in single quote string ?
bash string, separated by spaces, to array
assigning variables inside an if clause
lftp put file in specific directory?
shell script fails when executed by cronjob, works fine otherwise
bash script using awk to extract a key
how to change the language of my git?
ld_library_path won't work with more than one path
using bash, how do you make a classpath out of all files in a directory
how do i store the output of a bash command in a variable?
bash setting variable with command value
grep first string matching regex
replace a string 
replace a string 
sed is not replacing all occurrences of pattern
unexpected eof while looking for matching `'' while using sed
lcov option processing for removing multiple patterns
change variable output 
sed - inserting point and slash with escaping
how can you send a growl notification with netcat?
get hostname from string using bash script
setting environment variables for multiple commands  one-liner
how do i use pipe several times?
how do i store the results of a shell command in a makefile?
how do i preserve newlines in a quoted string ?
shell script - how to split a string with delimiter ","
search and replace  using regular expressions
how can i retain whitespace in kornshell script when using backticks?
getting bad substitution on solaris 10 bourne shell
linux + how to delete only the matched number from line
strange bash variable assignment behaviour in for loop
add data to bash array over multiple scripts
how do i assign this regex match from an output value to a variable using bash?
break line in read -p 
break line in read -p 
grep + fit grep syntax for solaris
bash script : login to postgres home from shell script
bash in emacs + osx not finding gems installed via terminal.app?
how does macports install packages? how can i activate a ruby installation done via macports?
executing shell script without calling sh implicitly
swapping two files 
lost posix utilities on mac osx, any ideas on debugging?
bash shell variable inside variables
remove path from environment variables
mac osx .zshrc $path variable ignorning local command
.bash_profile corrupted not found, command not found... help restore it back to the original
sublime text 2 os x 
bash shell script works properly at command prompt but doesn't work with crontab
unix environment variable is not setting with execute remotely
why ./helloworld and not helloworld directly to run my program from terminal?
how do i run bash shell scripts in cygwin?
detect if user's path has a specific directory in it
customizing a zsh shell
is is possible to put into clipboard the result of a shell command?
parsing and printing $path using unix
how to list all the programs that are available to a given account on a cluster?
is is possible to put into clipboard the result of a shell command?
extracting pcap name from a string using shell script or gawk
how to split a string and extract the all-uppercase part ?
how can i get the parent script's name?
how to run a bash script on a macbook pro?
bash ps1 shows $ instead of # for root
how to get shell prompt in python
is there a way to do multiple shell variable expansions/parameter substitutions?
how can i use sed to output the current and previous directory while including a tilde if $home is one directory further?
how to replace a path with another path in sed?
unable to combine pwd with filenames in zsh
why the variable  from the result of python works strange?
why the variable  from the result of python works strange?
grep output prints only single line  script
grep output prints only single line  script
bash while string is not empty
regex inside a sed command
shell script change directory with variable
capturing multiple line output to a bash variable
capturing multiple line output to a bash variable
how to get output like sqlplus while running sql query 
how to see shell scripts variables defined
changing shell to something that isn't restricted
replacing numbers with sed
how to execute an sql statement stored in a shell script variable using isql
how to replace a variable  string
how to replace a variable  string
how can i add new lines to a string and save it to a file ?
bash: nth word in a string
matching a line with a literal asterisk "*" in grep
grep variable rather than file
unix shellscript, arithmetic with floating point
, how can i tell if i am currently in a terminal
bash - why does test=' .* ' assign the listing of the current directory to test?
extract id from the json response 
output "sed" command to variable
using linux top command to compute used memory percentage
os x command-line url filter
using awk on a string
create a unique list from two variables in a linux bash shell script
matching only the first three numbers of a string in ksh
how to extract a string in csh?
bash script grep for pattern in variable of text
how can i bump a version number using bash
how to address error "bash: !d': event not found"  substitution
arithmetic problem with shell script
how would i get the current mouse coordinates ?
get yesterday's date in solaris
string replace not escaping?
string replace not escaping?
remove the last element from an array
simple echo in makefile escape issue
simple echo in makefile escape issue
stopping paste after any input is exhausted
floating point results  integer division
can not use unix $variable in awk command
shell script to monitor disk io not working properly
cut using delimiter as number for a string 
escaping backslash in awk in command substituion
escaping backslash in awk in command substituion
sed cannot convert uppercase to lowercase
how to use sed without a file with an env var?
can not use unix $variable in awk command
add more than one space in a string
curl post to restful services
how to use grep in csh script
can not make use of parameter nb10  script
filtering files by number  error unary operator expected
how to pass the value of a variable to the stdin of a command?
sending email using unix shell scripting
how to add symbol in a string on bash
how can i concat two strings with tab ?
output printing
finding number of child processes
no line breaks with "cat"
how do i echo $command without breaking the layout
how to ignore bash event designator when it appears ?
tr -cd ' leftsquarebrc  leftsquarebrc :digit: rightsquarebrc  rightsquarebrc ' only provides one digit
tr -cd ' leftsquarebrc  leftsquarebrc :digit: rightsquarebrc  rightsquarebrc ' only provides one digit
ignore files and consider only sub-folders
splitting filename delimited by period (.)
issue with ofs in awk
how to parse out a piece of data after printing from awk
how to retain the first instance of a match with sed
how to retain the first instance of a match with sed
how to change date format 
how to change date format 
how to generate string elements that don't match a pattern?
head outputting text on single line without linebreaks
why does my (ubuntu 11.10 bash 4.2.10, x86_64 ) named pipe get clogged?
weird characters when i print a number into a file (bash shell)
how to replace a special characters by character using shell
simple grep mismatch problem
ambiguous redirection
batch rename in hadoop
i want to copy a file's name into the document using bash
extract numbers from file names
extract numbers from file names
regular expressions, end of line and a bashscript will just not work together
renaming part for file using mv command 
bash - initialize variable to output of command "permission denied"
zcat filename expansion in for loop
parsing file to a new file
parsing file to a new file
zsh trouble when using echo with color/formatting characters
how to loop through files in a directory having a certain word in filename using bash script?
shell script: for loop unexpected output
error when trying to rename files with sed on mac os x
associative array  and for loop
storing output into variable bash
storing output into variable bash
how to change filenames in folder cygwin?
convert a file path into string
how does this batch code create unwanted files
bash splitting filename with space and dash in delimiter
extract part of filename
bash splitting filename with space and dash in delimiter
make awk interpret one line at a time from variable
bash scripting variable allocation when using here-document
how to get extension of a file 
how can remove the extension of a filename in a shell script?
shell script error- can't execute the command
regular expressions ?
bash script to generate a list of figures for latex
regular expressions ?
how do i count the number of occurance of '_' in my file name using unix shell script
bash find format new line
end of line  variables
change bash variable via perl
change bash variable via perl
using bash script to feed input to 
format output of bash script
how to display or append several files in a terminal using shell script?
split a string  to get all fields upto final '.' (bash)
why do i have to eval to  rightanglebrc  ?
converting read variables to lowercase
how to count number of forked (sub-?)processes
remove a list of words from filename
setting bash variable from a file where the string contains an asterisk
awk matchings/joining two files for which 1 is a variable
bash concatenating lines in a variable
bash concatenating lines in a variable
bash tips needed for understanding how to escape characters in command-line
run ffmpeg from shell script
how to find hidden file
how to find hidden file
problems with space character  cut command when using a different delimiter
problems with space character  cut command when using a different delimiter
syntax error in while loop bash
bash - get the entire file name having space in it
bash while loop syntax error in do
checking if domain is active on server
how do i extract the text present in the 7th line of a file
how to assign file names with spaces to vectors?
linux shell script not giving any output
bash array contents get printed in columns
how do i iterate over multiple, discontinuous ranges in a bash for loop
removing all characters expect a-z 0-9 
for i in `cat file` type with 2 variables and 2 files
how to rename many files url escaped (%xx) to human readable form
how to get process information of usernames in /etc/passwd 
bash - substitute on a variable
rename directories from abc.folder.xyz to folder.xyz
shell scripting: iteration over files and modyfying filenames
how do i write a script to run multiple processes in the background and have additional commands run once each individual command completes?
how to append the values in to the variable and avoid duplicate value?
unix cli script to rename folders containing space
need to printf script's arguments
grepping using shell - long delay
bad for loop variable  with sql server
using asorti function 
using asorti function 
awk pattern matching
how to store the output of sed command 
unix shell script - putting $input into file
regex to split name=value,* into csv of name,* and value,*
how to count number of words from string using shell
bash : how to disallow user input " * " , and also what kind of regular expressions should i check for user input?
php to shell script to php for a value via passwordless ipv6 ssh tunnel
how can i echo the newline after everyline
bash script to check if given ip is valid a record for host
rename a variable in a for loop
sorting a list 
cpu usage from linux then using it in a arithmetic expression
output mysql command  not in new lines
print character after each line in terminal
print character after each line in terminal
shell script: command output becomes one line after saving it into a varible
how to repeatedly pipe input between commands until condition on output applies?
print formatted output  variables
reading file line by line  expands special characters
assign directory listing to variable  script over ssh
how to store the result of sed in variable with the new line characters
why echo strings  reading from stdin doesn't show space characters
cat command unexpected delimited by end-of-file
hanging bash loop script?
missing line content when reading file with bash
bash script file read, bash deletes spaces
bash script file read, bash deletes spaces
entering a  leftanglebrc space rightanglebrc  into a shell script in ubuntu through echo
sed regex pattern for some tricky line (ini section)
replacing second column using shell script
combining awk and csum to hash a field
replacing second column using shell script
awk printing characters between fields
store output from command in variable . the output is being run instead of stored
how to pick out/trim part of a string using shell
how to pick out/trim part of a string using shell
while read line strange output
invalid sum expression while trying to obtain sum of index
cut operation - weird behavior
shell script - save substring to variable
grep each line from a file in another file
grep each line from a file in another file
how to handle variables that contain ";"?
how to handle variables that contain ";"?
shell script grep regex in array
shell script grep regex in array
extract unique value from a log4j log file
extract unique value from a log4j log file
how can i extract the 11th and 12th characters of a grep match ?
bad delimiter 
optimize multiple executions of grep
different 'replaces' on same string/line in one command shell script
combining awk and csum to hash a field
sed replace variables while read lines
shell script to get the file name from a string
extract url from a string with regex 
unable to add element to array 
optimize multiple executions of grep
sed: what to do with backslash?
sed regex pattern for some tricky line (ini section)
sed regex pattern for some tricky line (ini section)
extract a particular sequence from a file
how to preserve grep result with newline?
how to preserve grep result with newline?
sed to replace strings with special characters
how to check for valid string input ?
grepping complex strings in variables
bash script manipulation
extract digits from string after capturing it from file
unable to store postfix output mail format properly
how to use variable in regex?
matlab command (from bash / ) on an already running session
bash multiline echo
gnu privacy guard(gpg) /bash
bash programmation (cygwin): illegal character ^m
bash programmation (cygwin): illegal character ^m
wrapping a mutt email inside of another mutt email (journaling)
all newlines are removed when saving cat ouput into a variable
stripped first x characters from string script using sed and now store as variable?
how can i read a variable line by line?
how to store and echo multiple lines elegantly ?
bash iteration over paired data
shell get substring using awk
concatenation  and use of 'basename'
sed:replace a series of dots with one underscore
concatenation  and use of 'basename'
error in sh eval code, "$: not found"?
error in sh eval code, "$: not found"?
run script commands from stdin, with arguments
something wrong with my sh script dont know why?
shell variables in sed script
linux - bash redirect a string to a file
is my bash file stupid, can it be simplified?
extract part of a filename shell script
adding a leading zero to a float number in a bash script
unwanted shell expansion when assigning the output of a shell command to a variable
shell script - remove first and last quote (") from a variable
how to get a part of a string with a regular expression in a /bin/sh script
cut -f parameter not working correctly
how to substitute a paragraph in file?
how to substitute a paragraph in file?
make java program return value to calling shell script
getting result from awk and printing it into a file
bash scripting : edit output of a variable
bash scripting : edit output of a variable
how to use linux commands  variables
bash, extract string from text file with space delimiter
problems with shell scriptings using sed
unix ksh loop and put the result into variable
echo password to screen as *'s from variable with bash
reading a variable i set within terminal osx 10.9
shell sed get file path
bash script generating error while trying to append text to a file
cronjob with email not working
bash string manipulation
passing '*' in variable  for loop
how to pass an asterisk into bash heredoc?
how to pass an asterisk into bash heredoc?
variable in sed parsing
how to concatenate strings formatted with printf 
shell script display grep results
schell scripting send mail in line by line format
cant run shell script in php
what is: for i in `ls ${ilpm_application_log_dir}/${prefix}*`
why is the leading white space gone?
split string into array (delimited by "\ ")
how to get a substring after the last underscore (_)  script
find duplicate items in string
bash mysql query: error 1054 (42s22) 'file name' in 'field list'
save output of awk into a variable in a shell script
use of variable name 
bash regex finding particular words in a sentence
reorder lines of file by given sequence
add ip of host to hosts.allow
bash: for loop concatenates results instead of assigning individual lines;
echo .csv data to a file
creating a mysql database for a drupal 6 install via a script
"set -o noglob"  script
remote ssh command, lf missing on stdout
how to remove consecutive space  bash linux?
if condition giving error  when checking two strings
if condition giving error  when checking two strings
extract string from brackets
sed: replacing \n by default
sed: replacing \n by default
how do i split a list of unquoted paths with embedded spaces into individual paths?
remove last 14 digits from string and a underscore, if there are 14 digits
how to sort a text file according to character code or ascii code value?
how can i get the middle value of a shell command  script
how to extract a part of string?
sed: group capturing
sed: group capturing
solaris equivalent sed matching optional end string
linux tail only whole words
removing windows newlines on linux (sed vs. awk)
bash string replacing some chars with another
replace a line in a file with a string
unix command to print the 2nd part of the data after matched pattern
how to extract substring from string
how to convert numbers to the first letters of the alphabet?
bash string replacing some chars with another
shell script printing contents of variable containing output of a command removes newline characters
average of list of floating point numbers bash
bash programming - variable only to be returned when script called from another script
bash is removing newline
multisplitting in awk
how to get element using array index
sed returning different result on different platforms
expla variable assignement output
file content into unix variable with newlines
print a variable with multi-line value ?
bash using quotes in grep/cut commands in scripts
unable to get sed to replace commas with a word in my csv
bash mysql insert single qoute
bash mysql insert single qoute
unexpected behavior of shell script
extract ipv4 and ipv6 address ranges ?
extract ipv4 and ipv6 address ranges ?
convert unix path to dos path
redirecting in a shell script
php script to change ubuntu user password
evaluating a sub expression does not give interpolated variable
bash script for conditional grep
unexpected behavior regarding bash file reading eol eof
how to capture sqlplus  output  file
how to capture sqlplus  output  file
bash - when to use '$' in front of variables?
how to iterate through json  script
shell scripting: cat vs echo for output
shell - write variable contents to a file
how to i read the second line of the output of a command into a bash variable?
how can i get the middle value of a shell command  script
how can i cat back exact formatting regardless of shell?
build a string  with newlines
bash scripting, write special characters to file
replace regex matches
how to put bash / awk commands into a variable ( not output of commands)
sed: delete a line in multiline variable
linux bash replace placeholder with unknown text which can contain any characters
how to create multiple files of the same size from a variable?
how to create multiple files of the same size from a variable?
bash line concatenation during variable interpolation
, how do i count the number of lines in a variable?
linux: use parameter as file shortcut
my sed command generates two outputs. how can i store the outputs into two variables instead of file?
unix- sed replacing substring
how to parse $query_string from a bash cgi script
how to use shell variables in awk script
how to get output of diff command on new lines
in a linux shell how can i process each line of a multiline string?
sed / awk parsing lines between certain charcters
sed / awk parsing lines between certain charcters
cut operation - weird behavior
remove all chars that are not a digit from a string
why is sed not accepting my input?
index arguments in zsh
index arguments in zsh
curl command different from curl assigned to variable, 
bash regex patch match
need to rename many files in directory using sed and find
bash regex patch match
how can i echo/print specific lines from a bash variable
how can i echo/print specific lines from a bash variable
how can i echo/print specific lines from a bash variable
how to handle non-printable ascii character parameters?
how to handle non-printable ascii character parameters?
how to echo "$x_$y"  script?
 byte sequence
xmllint problems to output lines
extracting information from a string using regex 
create directory based on part of filename
create directory based on part of filename
exchange the position of two string through bash
sed behavior on cygwin inconsistent
how to access a variable that its name is made up by various strings ?
why should eval be avoided , and what should i use instead?
call variable based on content of another variable possible ?
debian bash shell variable substitution error
bash - echo a variable using another variable (?)
how to get parameter with variable?
associative arrays' ".keys()"
lookup variable value from string 
remove the last element from an array
linux bash script get user input and store in a array
bash: send output of complex command to an array
bash split string into array
split colon separated strings into array
check how many variables are stored in a variable
shell script: concatenate string while interating
bash: replacement of string with quotes (bad substitution error)
properly specify an array and element through variables in a shell script
assign value to a variable  dynamically - variable indirection
shell show args from the first to the one before the last
process all arguments but first
replace spaces in ksh with sed
how can i use bash to perform a substring operation on backtick output in one line?
what platform independent way to find directory of shell executable ?
bash modifiers in script
explanation of convertor of cidr to netmask  netmask2cdir and cdir2netmask
how to handle more than 10 parameters 
linux bash script: set date/time variable to auto-update (for inclusion in file names)
bash echo -e equivalent using sed and tee
how to get the nth positional argument ?
bourne shell scripts with user input
how to get the nth positional argument ?
how can i access  arguments indexed from the end?
bash, argument list segment
getting positional arguments 
bash code, what does this do?
shell: how to get name of included file?
how to pass a shell variable to awk in bourne shell?
awk or perl one liner + verify array values with awk one liner command
awk or perl one liner + verify array values with awk one liner command
awk or perl one liner + verify array values with awk one liner command
picking values from a variable
pass all elements in existing array to xargs
how to match pattern at the end of line/text
shell script reverse two concatenated variables?
shell script with c preprocessor directive
how to prevent bash script from putting all output into one line?
prepend **heredoc** to a file, 
strange bash variable assignment behaviour in for loop
create a file and write data to it
how to replace any character (e.g. ":") with new line  variable pattern substitution?
how to replace "/" on path string with " " using sed?
how to replace "/" on path string with " " using sed?
access $? variable with a piped statement?
combining wget and zenity/yad
access $? variable with a piped statement?
how can i use bash to perform a substring operation on backtick output in one line?
bash scripting, proper quoting of variable inside sed?
removing first letters in a string using bash under cgi
how to run a shell script before shutdown on centos
how to run a shell script before shutdown on centos
how to get the ip address from $ssh_client
remove blank spaces with comma in a string 
need help parsing string 
string extraction /mysql count of updated rows
sed with arbitrary variables that might contain slashes
bash - split text and number/numbers from one var
synchronizing access 2 variables in a loop 
how can i escape curly braces at the end of a regular expression
how can you retain the quotation marks when outputting a shell variable?
how to concatenate strings in a bash script?
sorting a "key/value pair" array 
what does this bash script line of code means
how can i use bash to perform a substring operation on backtick output in one line?
how to remove space in echo?
bash last index of
shell string bad substitution
how to get the length of a variable ?
substitute output from variable to give another output
bash scripting export filename to variable
bash scripting export filename to variable
changing from string to array not working as expected 
unix bash array not displaying all elements
unix bash array not displaying all elements
unix bash array not displaying all elements
bash - convert array to lines (for using sort & uniq)
parsing using gawk : how to retain some variable value outside gawk
bash: send output of complex command to an array
bash: using ifs to join an array into a string
bash: using ifs to join an array into a string
bash split string into array
bash split string into array
shell script to extract unique strings from filenames or from content of xml documents
how to use awk to parse values from stdout as elements of an array?
how do you implement an array into an awk expression?
bash: using ifs to join an array into a string
sorting an array passed to a function as parameter
array elements  scripts
strange shell behaviour
bash - concatenating backslash while joining an array
regular expression to strip comments from bash script
use of the internal field separator when capturing array data from a command in a bash script
use of the internal field separator when capturing array data from a command in a bash script
bash command to match n line
bash command to match n line
bash command to match n line
why is this error happening ?
nested shell variables without using eval
small issue with regex in sed
small issue with regex in sed
getting substring using ksh script
whitespace concatenation 
create array  dynamically
outputting values into csvs - 
bash to determine file size
bash script to remove 'x' amount of characters the end of multiple filenames in a directory?
get first file of given extension from a folder
get first file of given extension from a folder
shell script - loop through file names and extract numbers in the filename
how can i trim "/" using shell scripting?
why does this parameter expansion for finding the index of a single quote in a string work?
split a string  to get all fields upto final '.' (bash)
bash operator for logical defined-or
simplify bash script with variables
remove files less than a cetain size and extract filenames
how can i get unique values from an array  bash?
how can i get unique values from an array  bash?
using bash how can i seperate an ip address into 4 octet variables if i might not receive all 4 octets as input?
bash getting and parsing results
how to deal with file name starts with spaces ?
different greps over a variable value in a bash script always print out the same value
different greps over a variable value in a bash script always print out the same value
issues with openssl and getting correct values
store result of command in variable
what is wrong with my use of regex?
what is wrong with my use of regex?
bash: replacement of string with quotes (bad substitution error)
bash: replacement of string with quotes (bad substitution error)
bash: replacement of string with quotes (bad substitution error)
read a variable line by line without gobbling the \ character
read a variable line by line without gobbling the \ character
looping through csv
looping through csv
looping through csv
match exact word  script, extract number from string
storing set of commands output to a shell variable throws error
can i reference an existing bash variable by joining variables together?
how to use wildcard in the middle on the string? bash
 for loop error in conditional checking
create files based on user input
shell script: replace colon in file path
shell script: concatenate string while interating
shell script: concatenate string while interating
how to list content of field 
executing script variable by variable
bash string regex replace with ".*"
capitalize bash variable
shell scripting. command substitution issue in my script
remove last 14 digits from string and a underscore, if there are 14 digits
echo - syntax error: bad substitution
using pattern  parameter expansion
remove the all occurences of a word from a string  linux
shell get the last character of a string
how to check if string is a comment?
bash find char and remove all to the right
delete whitespaces  (no subprocess)
delete whitespaces  (no subprocess)
bash: path difference between two paths?
syntax error using expr substr  script
sed regex not being greedy?
bash substring removal with paths
bash substring removal with paths
bash substring removal with paths
how to quote / symbol inside $()
applying bash string operators on a constant string
sorting array  and regex
how to get bc to handle numbers in scientific (aka exponential) notation?
need to split a string  after certain number of characters
need to add suffix as digit to a variable and display it
delete part of string bash
how to echo "$x_$y"  script?
how to echo "$x_$y"  script?
how to pass a parameter containing & to a bat file from cygw
pass a parameterized folder name to 
own calc in windows 
shell: printing "" in a file with echo
shell: printing "" in a file with echo
how to compile c program on  using mingw?
format cmd.exe path output
batch file to sum numbers from text files and write that total value to text file
how to pass a parameter containing & to a bat file from cygw
conditional programming with file attributes (batch files)
execute command parsed from a string containing arguments with spaces
can xargs separate parameters?
shell: how to evaluate an arithmetic expression with more than two operands
adding integers from file bash
bc truncate floating point number
what is wrong with my sed regex (works in egrep, but not sed)?
python's argv and bash?
extracting tuple elements from a string
how to use shell commands in makefile
test if file exist, bash script
test if file exist, bash script
bash mysql query: error 1054 (42s22) 'file name' in 'field list'
parse result of `ls -l` with bash script
looping through files of specified extensions 
extract the second word in a line from a text file
redirecting output of bash for loop
how do i remove this space in this sed regex?
why the variable  from the result of python works strange?
how exactly does zsh expand globs?
ln has unexpected behavior when using a wildcard
parse  arguments in a different order
is there a bash equivalent to zsh's file-type globbing?
how to list all directories in present working directory?
echo literal string?
echo literal string?
awk-how to improve this regular expression?
splitting a string into multiple words so that i can loop through each word
what does echo - - - mean  command?
linux file craziness - strange behaviour getting last line of log file
, how do i delete numbered duplicate files?
bash script pulling variables from .txt, keeps giving syntax error while trying to use mount command
how to redirect stderr to a file and some echos (not stdout) to the same file
print file out 
passing quoted posix argument values 
how to quote strings in file names in zsh (passing back to other scripts)
control cursor  script
echo spaces  script
how to echo a string that contains quotes without modifying the contents of the string?
run a shell script in new terminal from current terminal
echo a one-liner bash script with variables
can't see "escape" colors in terminal
how to get a newline character into a bash script?
how to echo multi lined strings in a bourne shell
why does `echo -e` not work when used with a variable?
how to echo a string that contains quotes without modifying the contents of the string?
how to pass a return value of a function as an index of an array  script?
how to pass a return value of a function as an index of an array  script?
easy bash cut delimiter
get a part of string just like accessing an array?
"set -o noglob"  script
using echo  with variable
usage of "^-" in grep
pipe string with newline to command ?
can i change how many spaces 'column -t' outputs between columns?
bash: why is echo adding extra space?
freetds inserting blob inside asterisk dialplan
sqlite field separator for importing
bash ps1: line wrap issue with non-printing characters from an external command
how do i write non-ascii characters using echo?
bash: selected part in bold font 
ansi color specific rgb sequence bash
terminal escape sequences for fonts
how get ascii characters similar to output of the linux command 'tree'?
inserting text from a file to the beginning of another file - bash
bash: set a shell variable in the middle of the pipeline
how do i replace backspace characters (\b) using sed?
how to remove two lines from terminal output
why does awk skip the second field in first entry?
how to write input after executing bin using a shell script
bash script and string compares
awk - request for clarification example
how to i read the second line of the output of a command into a bash variable?
how to i read the second line of the output of a command into a bash variable?
how can i put tabs in text files from terminal?
email whois details on user login using mailx - whois output format not working using sed
bash  leftanglebrc read rightanglebrc  printing new lines, how to prevent
bash  leftanglebrc read rightanglebrc  printing new lines, how to prevent
bash cgi won't return image
openssl script to run checks 
how to extract text between two words ?
how to insert tab on a text file
how to create the empty 'icon\r' file for a .dmg from shell script?
how to grep boldface text
get the size and other info with the "du" command
get the size and other info with the "du" command
newlines not being interpreted when passed to php via the 
printing message on the screen and also send to the syslog at the same time
mutt won't send attachment
automatic input in ruby script?
displaying a window's user in gnu screen's hardstatus
is bash support unicode 6.0?
make output of command appear on single line
perl to bash: how does the newline character-escape "\n" behave special?
how do you write a esc character to be interpreted by echo?
linux shell scripting: hex string to bytes
shell scripting: grep and tab delimited
shell scripting: grep and tab delimited
add a period at end of paragraph
replace control-characters with their ascii-code in hex
regexp replace for mutil-line
regexp replace for mutil-line
how do i move printing position up one line in terminal
error using "find" command 
unusual behaviour of linux's sort command
unusual behaviour of linux's sort command
field conditions in awk; newbie
use of \c ing
sorting alphanumeric multiple columns
how does these special characters work in perl?
using the "alternate screen" in a bash script
using the "alternate screen" in a bash script
how to echo to running process ?
why does `echo -e` not work when used with a variable?
bash, sed: replacing pattern with multiline file content
awk "if" statement
providing partial input to a bash command
unix shell - removing special newline characters
unix shell - removing special newline characters
perl to bash: how does the newline character-escape "\n" behave special?
bash script read hostnames from .txt file and place in variable for ssh
executing python multi-line statements in the one-line command-line
weird newline character error in python
put every alternate row in a column using some unix commands
alternatives --config java bash script
bash script, read ends the script?
unix/linux add a header to a tab delimited file
bash script for generating ssh keys
deleting echo line 
bash: how to avoid blank at the beginning of a line?
bash bcmath functions
how to return result of an oracle stored procedure to a shell script
 script, is it possible to echo something into the beginning of file?
performing string comparison with carriage return 
echoing a backspace
hot to get memcached stats without nc?
execve("/bin/sh", 0, 0); in a pipe
bash multi-line string with extra space
adding a tab in a shell script
combine echo and file as input to a command
android root app echo not working with device driver
sending ascii byte streams to a pipe
linux shell - replacing string with other string inside files
 byte sequence
output json from bash script
how to convert to a zero byte file?
how do you temporarily hide the output of a bash script that is running?
to continuously loop using for ing
how do i trim lines read from standard input on bash?
send a command to a process
bash how to add new line and comment to the log file
is the md5sum linux command working right?
sed: open/read files in directory
continue output on same line
write a single byte to the serial port with bash
echo bash variables overwriting text problem
help me decode this javascript which generates a passsword based on a master password and a website's name
bash : echo binary output
variables  seq replacement ({1..10})
using adb  is giving different results than expected
generate php classes 
linux shell script: echo only a char, didnt handle spaces
bash: how to supress newlines?
loop and print stars in same line unix command
using awk to print
print file out 
no space between *gettext* string and cursor of *read* command
bash : echo binary output
carrige return doesn't delete previous value
linux  application with persistent interface
format stdin 
hex to tcp port - bash
bash  leftanglebrc read rightanglebrc  printing new lines, how to prevent
bash cgi won't return image
print unicode hex code which is part of basic latin as a symbol 
hex to tcp port - bash
using bash: write bit representation of integer to file
writing a binary file  (shell, awk)
how to make echo interpret backslash escapes and not print a trailing newline?
how to make echo interpret backslash escapes and not print a trailing newline?
script not reading last line of a file
tr command causes problems in cygw.exe shell, but works in mintty.exe
parsing the output of 'ifconfig' 
how to grep directory for keyword existence?
append text to an output from 
trick about xargs and wildcard
linux shell scripting: hex string to bytes
convert string to hexadecimal on 
why does sed add a new line in osx?
prompt user a message and read input while saving it to a log file
checksum on string
generating a sha256 from the linux 
how do i convert among printed decimal/octal/hex/utf-8 representations of a utf-8 character from the command-line?
post data with curl
scripting openssl to generate many certificates without manually entering password?
spring security generate a salted hash for users from 
how to create a script to add sed command into a file (bash script)
how to insert a delay between pipelining commands in a bash script. e.g. cat file | telnet mail.domain.com 25
single line create file with content
why wc add plus one
how to generate a java .property file of the latest svn revision number from ?
applescript+bash: script works in the applescript editor but not using osascript
regular expression substitution
bash: export functions for use in xarg
weird behaviour of wildcharacter * 
is there an easy way to randomize all the words in a given text? maybe ?
can i write some output to the current document and some to shell output?
sed - extract string between first occurrence of match1 and next occurrence of match2
change linux password in a script, quietly
change linux password in a script, quietly
sed regex with multiple matches and condition
multiple sed replace with back reference (parse sql for joined tables)
extract some string from a line using sed
sed - extract string between first occurrence of match1 and next occurrence of match2
install mysql on ubuntu without password prompt
bash script: how to add a section to a config file?
awk sum numbers after a seperator
how to add colors with a pipe?
multiple sed replace with back reference (parse sql for joined tables)
looping through files of specified extensions 
awk include whitespaces in command
sqlite3 command-line - how to show less/more output
how to format text file as it can be seen in man pages (justifying text, nothing more) using bash
automating the creation of a sqlite database from a batch file
user defined variable inside awk
/*  echo command outputs some default path with string
will this function correctly?
when i exec a script with command "at", i get an infinite loop
"at" command starts script but script not working
how to extract filename from path using sed or awk
all files in one dir, linux
all files in one dir, linux
extracting directory name from an absolute path using sed or awk
bash script to run in 5 minutes
sed regexp in a bash script
replace from nth occurrence of pattern till the end of line with sed
replace from nth occurrence of pattern till the end of line with sed
how to replace "/" on path string with " " using sed?
should i use "| at now" or ampersand (&) to run the script in background?
clonezilla custom-ocs bash script failing on ocs-onthefly command
awk - sub and gsub function?
awk - sub and gsub function?
awk - sub and gsub function?
bash command not running in apache cgi shell
how to pass error message from shell script to python script?
permission denied in running script
how do i get bc(1) to print the leading zero?
how do i get bc(1) to print the leading zero?
why doesn't bc show the scale for the result of this expression?
linux/awk convert file containing decimal to hex
regex to capture title from year-month-day-title.ext
simple way to convert 00:20:40.28 (hours:minutes:seconds.split seconds) to seconds
make arrow and delete keys work in kornshell 
how do i call the split function in awk to split a string on "\."?
1. shell and 1.bash on top of iterm window?
how to delete substring from string?
bash command not running in apache cgi shell
own calc in windows 
linux script confusion
how to search goosh.org from the ?
print all fields with awk separated by ofs
change a single row into columns in a file
awk behaves differently on command-line than from script
awk behaves differently on command-line than from script
does awk print all if field variable doesn't exist?
idiomatic analog to ruby's `object#tap`  command pipelines?
passing multiple arguments to c program
batch file command
how to pass keyboard input along to linux command?
unix `tee` - chain of commands
unix `tee` - chain of commands
sed remove time stamp from file with regex
an issue with a variable in adb shell
sequentially executing background processes unix
how to find the last field using 'cut'. linux
count specific word in line 
how to replace the nth column/field in a comma-separated string using sed/awk?
how can i insert a character at a certain position in a csv line
sed script to edit csv file or python
change csv delimiter with sed
awk and numeric comparison with number less than 1.7e-308
why doesn't bc show the scale for the result of this expression?
perl one line liner + match ip address
perl one line liner + match ip address
how to do float comparison ?
bash: progress output for rsync in a script
change input base  with dc?
shell script call  application
how to grep a string in until loop ?
11*(...) as a bash parameter without quotation marks
sorting dates in array with bash
substring from a header shell script
how to extract a value from a string using regex and a shell?
why does this sed command to match number not work?
write a single byte to the serial port with bash
what does " rightanglebrc &" mean when followed by a file name?
why this echo construct does not work?
how do i let sed 'w' command know where the filename ends?
is there a way to use regexes in sed without having to put backslash everywhere?
how to get every character in a string ?
pipable string extraction
pipable string extraction
extract text from hostname
bash substring with pipes and stdin
bourne shell script to convert a number to telephone format
what is wrong here with sed?
what is wrong here with sed?
what is wrong here with sed?
send data to running shell script
split string to array using awk
wildcard error in iteration of a bash script - shell
how do i prepend to a stream ?
change input base  with dc?
using bash, how can i expand pdsh list of ip addresses?
append line to /etc/hosts file with shell script
how to *return* *only* the nth occurrence of a regex match using sed?
how to use ":" as awk field separator?
split for words separated with semicolon
why does this unix shell code work like this?
add symbol every 2 bytes
how to pass a date range to awk as a variable
how can i prevent parallel from adding extra escaping to my command?
reverse order of a string
how can i change 0123 into actg with tr or perl?
awk - how to set regexp item quantity ? like java's {n} {n, m} {n,}
awk - how to set regexp item quantity ? like java's {n} {n, m} {n,}
how to do exponentiation 
why do we use echo and bc together?
how to do such substitutions with awk or sed or perl?
bash to transform string `3.11.0.17.16` into `3.11.0-17-generic`
bash split substring
bash format hex string
running multiple process in current shell (using {} ) with atleast one command to be run as background
reverse hexadecimal number using shell scripts
sending bytes to serial port from unix ?
how to show certain column of a record using sed
linux shell scripting: hex string to bytes
read a part of directory name and get rid of carriage control usind sed or similar
shell scripting: raise to the power
awk: convert notation of a number while i multiply columns
bash: how to calculate?
replace a trailing minus with leading minus
how to separate a 10-digit phone number into two parts
how to make grep select only numeric values?
read mail out of maildir direcory with correct encoding and use 
sed with literal string, not input file
get substring between first and nth occurence of pattern
simple sed substitution
changing the case of a string with awk
how to use unix scripts to show all 'n' characters long group of strings?
how to use unix scripts to show all 'n' characters long group of strings?
how to use unix scripts to show all 'n' characters long group of strings?
 filtering of words in a line of text
exit a bash script from a function whose output is captured
not able to write a proper regular expression to remove multiple spaces
logoff/reboot/shut-down/quit script but how to do the logging?
append to protected file
bash : press enter key using bash, separate lines
how to force the read command to correctly parse array arguments within quotation marks?
shell program - determine average word length in a file
script for finding average runtime of a program
: command not foundop/dominio.sh: line 2:
retrieving data via awk and openssl
how can i convert this string into a list through the 
how can i convert this string into a list through the 
escaping backslash in windows paths passed to unix programs
escaping backslash in windows paths passed to unix programs
use sed to replace all backslashes with forward slashes
sed matching to the end of the line
bash run function with different user
why is there a hyphen before bash after installing rvm?
sed to replace strings with special characters
using sed to return value after '='
bash script - cat eof breaking
bash script - cat eof breaking
removing pattern at the end of a string using sed or other bash tools
display directories with a bold font – how to enable? with .bash_profile?
creating a temporary cron job from the terminal
convert .txt file to .csv with header 
how to calculate age from system date using awk rightanglebrc 
error sed syntax: unknown command: `0'
error sed syntax: unknown command: `0'
do zsh or bash have quotes that are convenient for english text?
how to be sure that two directories are not subdirectories to each other (bash)
python subprocess popen passing arguments
how do i get the application exit code from a windows ?
batch file xcopy command
how to write a bash script with a for loop that creates multiple text files with different names
installing mysql on centos 6 vm (vagrant) with bash script
script to monitor any modifications in files in my ftp site
bash quoted array expansion
to print gunzip filename and selected rows -continuation :
how to pass error message from shell script to python script?
how to check in command-line if a given file or directory is locked (used by any process)?
write output to two files, overwrite the first one, append to the second one
duplicating stdout to stderr
how to get piped input to ruby -e on ?
creating a text file via ssh shell
clean way of concatenating strings and variables?
how to `ls` only one level deep?
tr command with special character
tr command with special character
scripts for listing all the distinct characters in a text file
sed replace ' with \'
redirect log outputs to another terminal
using bash echo command to input into a python one liner
using bash echo command to input into a python one liner
running bash commands in the background without printing job and process ids
why does awk print the entire line instead of the first field?
why does awk print the entire line instead of the first field?
is it possible to set variables equal to expressions ?
is it possible to set variables equal to expressions ?
cannot launch shell script with arguments using java processbuilder
bash redirect output to tty and file
subprocess module from python fails to run bash commands like " leftanglebrc cmd1 rightanglebrc  |  leftanglebrc cmd2 rightanglebrc "
copy modified content to new file 
windows shortcut to run git bash script
running shell commands within python interpreter
regex not matching in sed
regex not matching in sed
how to hide command output 
how do i transfer a file over a network and record time taken?
is it possible to execute a database insert from the centos command-line?
if field exists then echo "something" in mysql and bash, else insert into table - output to variable?
take text from a file and insert to a mysql table using a script
subject name not showing in my email using mail command
sed to extract till first space after 2nd word
sed to extract till first space after 2nd word
how to hide command output 
replacing strings with special characters  sed
how to return a specific variable's value from a shell script?
linux shell command to append a line of text to all text files (application logs actually)
split remaining fields in sed/awk
capitalize bash variable
command substitution alters formatting
using gsub to replace a double quote with two double quotes?
using gsub to replace a double quote with two double quotes?
how to extract a substring using bash
how to extract a substring using bash
how to use a nested if and perform correct file checks 
float numbers  script
how to get piped input to ruby -e on ?
pcre regex to sed
how to log messages to a log file in a specific path from a bash script
find output with a title as pipe
how to open .bashrc in cygwin
shell script - how to split a string with delimiter ","
using sed to change heading names of a very large file
how to run unix shell script in a java code using expectj tool?
zshell grep negative lookbehind
shell one-liner to add a line to a sorted file
shell one-liner to add a line to a sorted file
.bash_profile corrupted not found, command not found... help restore it back to the original
what does echo path $path \$path do?
what does echo path $path \$path do?
 osx: configuring the path variable
substituting environment variables in a file: awk or sed?
currency parsing and conversion using shell commands
currency parsing and conversion using shell commands
currency parsing and conversion using shell commands
combining echo and cat on unix
changing bash parent shell
echoing variable properly with script
bash: preventing a redirected function's errors from mixing with output
please help, when ruuning bash script that calls another script getting eof error. thanks in advance
prepend text in file
bash if empty string
how to determine eod
bash: how can i replace a string by new line in osx bash?
why is this bash variable empty when i just set it?
returning numbers from text file - bash
cron job does not start
how to count spaces between coloums
bash mysql query to comma separated file
drop all tables in postgresql using bash script
escaping problem  using isql
how to use gnu time with pipeline
bash script - select from database into variable
how to create a /usr/bin/mysql wrapper program via io redirection?
passing sed backreference to base64 command
send request from node js to shell expect
counting the occurrence of a sub-graph in a graph
"escaping" $ when executing a remote bash command from python fabric
how do spaces work in a regular expression with grep in the bash shell?
writing outputs to log file and console
writing outputs to log file and console
bash proper way of printing out an error message
sed removing whitespace around certain character
sed removing whitespace around certain character
which tool should i use to extract data from string?
which tool should i use to extract data from string?
count number of files generated from split command
shell script output to console and log on same line?
shell script function return a string
getting an eof error, i've searched for sytax errors cannot see
why does a change in arithmetic expression change behaviour of ctrl-d  script?
combining pipes and here documents in the shell for ssh
cutting part of the string
bre how to match up to empty spaces at the end of line?
netcat drops incoming packets
netcat drops incoming packets
when would piping work - does application have to adhere to some standard format? what is stdin and stdout ?
pipes inside of sed
`exit` inside parentheses doesn't exit script
`exit` inside parentheses doesn't exit script
echo and run command after that
echo and run command after that
how to access php environment variables in a bash script?
bash date/time arithmetic
concatenate  the output of two commands without newline character
concatenate  the output of two commands without newline character
how to define dynamic variable ?
from the bash command shell, parsing numbers from a line
split 1 argument into 2 arguments using regexp in a bash script
using a variable as a directory path to redirect output 
cut command not working on linux
why doesn't sed interpret this regex properly?
why doesn't sed interpret this regex properly?
why doesn't sed interpret this regex properly?
access to last command in zsh (not previous )
access to last command in zsh (not previous )
exporting string 
bash redirecting output from multiple functions to a file
bash redirecting output from multiple functions to a file
shell script hangs on mail command
bash substring with regular expression
how do i send a file as an email attachment using linux ?
how to send email with attachment on openwrt?
finding and replacing numbers around ^'s in a file
why does this command fail when i use a #  args?
substitute a regex pattern using awk
linux bash - replace multiple occurrences of a char, omitting single occurrence
bash - how to format file in orderly manner?
when appending to a file using windows batch commands, how to append immediately after the next word in the file?
awk and numeric comparison with number less than 1.7e-308
awk and numeric comparison with number less than 1.7e-308
awk and numeric comparison with number less than 1.7e-308
extract substring using regexp in pla
permanently set and edit environment variable in centos linux
print current command with echo?
shell syntax error near unexpected token `done' 
evaluate variable to integer with sed
is there a way to forcefully echo to the command-line from a bash function call?
unix print output on one line
how do you "debug" a regular expression with sed?
how to make sed do non-greedy match?
perl backticks when using pipes
perl backticks when using pipes
bash - `read` cannot read from a redirect, `cat` works fine?
input from with
awk does not capture z using a regex  leftsquarebrc 0-z rightsquarebrc  range
sed backslashes
print to a file shellscript
use sed to replace all backslashes with forward slashes(doubles too)
use sed to replace all backslashes with forward slashes(doubles too)
unable to run a postgresql script from bash
prepend header to file without changing the file
bash variable timeout if not aquired in x time
error when running nohup  script
how to get a return value of a java class 
echo binary data from shell script to terminal
how to find sum of lines and words
rearrangement rows to columns on linux
echo the line number of the code in a log file
shell script: appending a line break to an output file
what's the different between ` and ' in programming, such as mysql and shells
how to output the start and stop datetime of shell script (but no other log)?
how to output the start and stop datetime of shell script (but no other log)?
how to output the start and stop datetime of shell script (but no other log)?
head outputting text on single line without linebreaks
line breaks in email report
how to get only difference from diff
issues in gettting $pwd 
what is a brief explanation of the syntax of the following "top" command: top -p `pgrep process-name | tr "\\n" "," | sed 's/,$//'`
escape function  programming
error when running nohup  script
bash: back quotes and eval confusing behavior
syntax error expr
file search bash script
file search bash script
unix map function
how to let jenkins git commit only if there are changes?
variable in backtick statement
linux bash script to extract ip address
passing files randomly to a program
best(?) way to make a popup menu for semi-portable shell scripts?
executing multiple commands without using ; and &?
invoke grep from a shell script and keep the colored patterns
shell programming, lopping thorugh files
linux: gnu sort does not sort seq
bash: how to delete last symbol
bash - how to use arguments from previous command?
bash: getting a command's completion output programmatically (e.g., in a variable)
rsync syntax error when run from bash script
rsync syntax error when run from bash script
date arithmetic  scripts
a random string generator in a bash script isn't respecting the number of given characters
how can i add stdout to a top of a file (not the bottom)?
why does this sed line do this?
pipe stdout and stderr to two different processes ?
which command add the total in command ls|xargs wc -l?
which command add the total in command ls|xargs wc -l?
sed regular expression not matching
sed problem. what am i doing wrong?
how to handle backslash used in sed
concatenating tr commands 
can not pipe the output of echo command to ls
bash: getting a command's completion output programmatically (e.g., in a variable)
sorting a comma separated list of values
sorting a comma separated list of values
add header to stdout stream in single-line bash pipeline
unspecified string replacement issue
add prefix to every single hostname 
variable for field separator in perl
using single variable to pass in reference to multiple field variables in awk?
pass special characters from input to bash script
pass special characters from input to bash script
extracting optional values from a string
at what stage is sed's pattern space printed?
sed replace multiple repetitions of a character with multiple repetitions of another character
inconsistency between sed and python regular expressions
how to show single quote in single-quoted text
awk - how to get only the matching portion of a regex
redirect to all files in the directory
use of pipes in backticks
use of pipes in backticks
pipe stdout to multiple processes  leftsquarebrc zsh rightsquarebrc 
how can i print the all the characters until a certain pattern(excluding the pattern itself) using grep/awk/sed.
how can i print the all the characters until a certain pattern(excluding the pattern itself) using grep/awk/sed.
how can i print the all the characters until a certain pattern(excluding the pattern itself) using grep/awk/sed.
how can i print the all the characters until a certain pattern(excluding the pattern itself) using grep/awk/sed.
how can i print the all the characters until a certain pattern(excluding the pattern itself) using grep/awk/sed.
compare two strings using grep
print all columns but first delimited by pattern, bash
swap characters in a string using shell script
swap characters in a string using shell script
why does regex show a match even when one of the characters isn't there in the string?
what linux shell command returns a part of a string?
bash: split string into character array
bash: split string into character array
why does set -e; true && false && true not exit?
why does set -e; true && false && true not exit?
bash - how to use arguments from previous command?
ksh script + print argument content 
insert line into a new file  using shell script
how to match "numbers around a comma" with sed?
how to create a function in .bashrc that will work correctly when the command run by the function has spaces in it?
recommended method of escaping single quotes  - double quotes, backslashes, or something else?
recommended method of escaping single quotes  - double quotes, backslashes, or something else?
alias hello='echo hello' - why doesn't this work after a restart?
adding alias to end of alias list in .bashrc file using sed
sed to match the first of the recurring character
shell - creating text file which appends content - using cat
separating characters of a string, bash shell
can not make use of parameter nb10  script
print out shell variables and "" in awk/sed script using echo/printf
bash - formatting values
tcl variables inside awk (using awk inside tcl)
finding the the sum of multiples of 3 and 5 between 1 to 1000 in awk
print field number and field
using sed to search-and-replace contiguous matches in pipe-delimited files
replacing one char with many chars with using tr
how to start a shell script in one minute later ?
base64 encoded modifying just printable char
using at to run a .txt file or command with flags
getting numerical sub-string of fields using awk
how to store the actual name of a /*url*?
using sed to replace numbers
using sed to replace numbers
using sed to replace numbers
using sed to replace numbers
sed + how to get the second word (string) after "=" separator by sed
regular expression to extract a percentage
replacing the value of input tag across multiple files
piping to a command in ash shell
i am trying to remove windows file path from a file like "\abc\" but i am not sure which command i need to use 
bash script and xml/rss parsing
bash script and xml/rss parsing
sort characters in a string 
how do you invoke a terminal through a command and cd to a directory?
how can i execute a script from my local machine in a specific (but variable) directory on a remote host?
shell programming, lopping thorugh files
need script to continue when switching over to new user
awk gzip output to multiple files
vim ( gvim ) where is the color-settings stored for gvim on linux desktop?
sort and print in line
sort and print in line
how to use 'coproc' to interact with another command driven program
how to run 'at' as a different user?
echo bash variable as text
invoke gdb to automatically pass arguments to the program being debugged
invoke gdb to automatically pass arguments to the program being debugged
redirect text into a script that typically accepts file redirects
configure flume /bash script - avoid interactive flume shell console
execute imagemagick convert in subfolders with bash script
how to copy multiple files from a different directory using cp, variable and brackets?
create and rename multiple copies of files
create and rename multiple copies of files
how to create mysql database from shell command?
bash turning multi-line string into single comma-separated
bash mail: command output in subject
sed substitute recursively
sudo echo "something"  rightanglebrc  rightanglebrc  /etc/privilegedfile doesn't work... is there an alternative?
sudo echo "something"  rightanglebrc  rightanglebrc  /etc/privilegedfile doesn't work... is there an alternative?
hex to dec conversion (pipe with sed)
,how to make a comand2 as a continue for comand1
how to concatenate extra value to output of one command and pass it to another unix command
substitute strings with special characters in a huge file using sed
linux - how to use sed with regex
selecting different values from two lines 
ldap script help - put ldapserach command results in single quotes
difficulties with awk sub command output when there is a + sign in the last field
why does sed not replace all occurrences?
using sed to remove unwanted characters from output
fifos and interactive command (gpg)
bash multi input java tester
bash , append line at the end of each file
what's happening here? shell programming
what's happening here? shell programming
bash array in perl script
access to last command in zsh (not previous )
bash: getting a command's completion output programmatically (e.g., in a variable)
bash: executing an output of a script as a script
repeating bash task using at
repeating bash task using at
running a command in a new mac os x terminal window
how to pipe stdout while keeping it on screen ? (and not to a output file)
greediness in sed
echo to stderr and tee to log file?
bash: function + source + declare = boom
print in a loop python windows
telnet to determine open ports (shell script)
how to change the language of my git?
setting an environment variable in cygwin
make bash export permanent
script isn't writing anything after $ to text file
how to output a shell command using echo
`else' unexpected in korn shell script
how to override a single inverted comma in awk command
can someone explain me why awk's sub() / gsub() works like this?
can someone explain me why awk's sub() / gsub() works like this?
how do i set up an ffmpeg queue?
remove a list of words from filename
populate and read an array with a list of filenames
using ? with sed
using ? with sed
how to regroup commands in a shell to avoid repeated redirections?
add line at top and bottom of file before sending it to pipe
awk + export value to awk
how to remove the first part of a string ?
extract string from string using regex in the terminal
extract string from string using regex in the terminal
extract string from string using regex in the terminal
count number of words in a line in cshell
bash string comparison fails
linux bash multithread/process small jobs
, how to write alias or function for "export grep_color='1;32'; grep --color"?
sub-shell precendence
find and replace strings using sed
what is a 'field' ?
what is a 'field' ?
pass parameter to an awk script file
pass parameter to an awk script file
pass parameter to an awk script file
how to be sure that two directories are not subdirectories to each other (bash)
insert text mid-line with sed/awk
why doesn't awk exit at the end of this script?
how to detect if a node.js script is running through a shell pipe?
why is the following output produced by this sh script
about bash, process scheduling and printf()
dash redirect from stdin to stdout
shell: using sed in backticks
shell: using sed in backticks
why is "echo foo | read a ; echo $a" not working as expected?
return code of sed for no match
bash read line vs read -n line
how to execute commands requiring root privileges inside a script?
echo to both sdout and stderr
writing to stderr using /dev/tty?
how to copy stdin into two files?
how to copy stdin into two files?
osx terminal string length
pass parameter to an awk script file
pass parameter to an awk script file
what is the difference between ${variable_name} and $variable_name 
what is the difference between ${variable_name} and $variable_name 
why is my perl replace not working?
ignorecase in awk creates unintentional output
using rot13 and tr command for having an encrypted email address
using rot13 and tr command for having an encrypted email address
using echo to pipe a string with c style comments
make zsh complete arguments from a file
how to make whitespaces visible in the 
find a string in a file name (shell script)
windows batch script download yesterday files
expr / awk / sed: get git directory name from repo url
how to split given string in line by line 
bash prevent symbol expansion when reading from stdin
use of pipes in backticks
sed replacement \1 not working
sed replacement \1 not working
slicing a list returned by a function in one expression
linux: /dev/null/: is a directory
what is the syntax for writing a function in darwin (os x)?
how to print the ouput/error to a text file?
pass parameter to an awk script file
 script run in background goes in stopped state
shell hangs when assigning command result to a variable
how to output awk result to file
double redirection test
concatenate stdin and output of command
bash - stop execution of sourced scripts
how to run a command from a variable ing
how to run a command from a variable ing
how can i split a string ?
how to remove space between distinct chars in a string using sed?
(un/de)compress a string ?
(un/de)compress a string ?
shell script to send email
cron: sending output to file then emailing file to me
cron: sending output to file then emailing file to me
bash script, read values from stdin pipe
sed extract only pattern
sed - how to put brackets around the second word
wierdness using tee: can anyone explain?
pipe to multiple files, but not stdout
how to use linux commands  variables
unix shell - removing special newline characters
unix shell - removing special newline characters
how can i gzip standard in to a file and also print standard in to standard out?
launching a perl script without output
how to add content from different sources on the same line 
how to add content from different sources on the same line 
how to show text  line (like the `write` command does)?
how to show text  line (like the `write` command does)?
split a long string of arguments after delimiter
how to concatenate stdin and a string?
how to concatenate stdin and a string?
sed strange behaviour when executed inside grave accent - `
sed strange behaviour when executed inside grave accent - `
using sed and regex to capture last part of url
cut off known substring sh
cut off known substring sh
cut off known substring sh
increment number in url address
find all occurrence and replace string with pattern matching
ifs usage 
ifs usage 
how can i provide stdin to ed, which need a filename?
sed regexp looking for either whitespace or end of line
hexdump and xxd produce different outputs on red hat and ubuntu/mint
hexdump and xxd produce different outputs on red hat and ubuntu/mint
why do we use echo and bc together?
shell script: replace matching text with output of program
bash bc is unable to compare numbers
executing python multi-line statements in the one-line command-line
shell: how to open a file and erase the content inside
send input to vlc command
how to concatenate stdin and a string?
how does jenkins deal with interactive shell scripts?
how do i set curl to always use the -k option?
any tool/script available to convert c99 style comments // into c style comments /* ..*/ into whole projects?
passing for loop results to var fails
bash:  number manipulation on a continuous serial data stream
bash:  number manipulation on a continuous serial data stream
outputting variables? (bash)
powershell run java process problem
powershell run java process problem
simple echo in makefile escape issue
how do i split a number of words on delimiter in sed or with awk
capturing groups in sed
echo newline character output
no output from script
linux. how to preserve lines when setting content of file to environment variable?
two layers of quotes around a bash variable
two layers of quotes around a bash variable
how to take wakelock from shell command on android
how to take wakelock from shell command on android
shell script double output. simple log file and compund log file.
unable to set many characters to the field separator in awk
how do i list one filename per output line ?
how to create the option for printing out statements vs executing them in a shell script
linux how to run script at certain time?
sftp: return number of files in remote directory?
how to check on ftp if there files on the list older than 7 days
how to find the last field using 'cut'. linux
substitue part of a string using sed
can i create a crontab "on the fly" in a script?
how to execute a command with one parameter at a time in the *nix shell?
awk extract "matthew" from mtjoseph:6/mktczms/yu.:10974:10060:matthew
difference between below syntax 
bash - recursively rename files containing invalid/non-printing characters
mac os x terminal batch rename
linux cp with a regexp
rename multiple directories with one domain name to another domain name?
batch (basename) file/folder renaming using an "index"
delete last character of filenames in a folder
delete last character of filenames in a folder
bulk rename directories with prefix unix
svn post-commit hook sending a message back to client
split a namefile 
piping a command directly to the shell executable
regexp (sed) how to 1-escape special chars and 2-group them
perform a command on multiple files using 
how to supply sudo with root password from java?
bash: how to copy a file without overwriting older files
shell script oddities involving sed and backtick
running an installation command : "n" followed by "y" without any manual intervention
indentation   tools
insert line into a new file  using shell script
read one line with "read" , but without "while"
read one line with "read" , but without "while"
upstart script not executing pre-start script when the process is respawned
convert decimal to hexadecimal  script
convert decimal to hexadecimal  script
parsing strings  w/out a delimiter
parsing strings  w/out a delimiter
parsing strings  w/out a delimiter
bash shell decimal to binary conversion
what is the difference between && and ;  or command?
what is the difference between && and ;  or command?
what is the difference between && and ;  or command?
sed splitting up every input line
awk - split only by first occurrence
loop control from within a subshell
why does 2 rightanglebrc &1 need to come before a | (pipe) but after a " rightanglebrc  myfile" (redirect to file)?
what is the right way to escape a bash variable to be correctly expanded in html?
can xargs separate parameters?
decrypt multiple openpgp files in a directory
redirect stdin ?
how to supply an input value to the prompt via shell script?
python: execute scp, stdin for password not working
restart apache2 from linux bash as root
bash script/pgrep not working as expected
sed regex issue
escape file name for use in sed substitution
escape file name for use in sed substitution
what does `echo prefix = ~/.node  rightanglebrc  rightanglebrc  ~/.npmrc` mean?
in zsh, how to expand a file of glob patterns?
continuing eval saga: how to eval printf a single quote
piping output to cut
shell echo to file ending up on multiple lines?
run nohup while sftp
is there a `sh` equivalent to bash's ` leftanglebrc  leftanglebrc  leftanglebrc ' redirection operator?
job scheduling with `at`. "eof: not found"
how to pass stdinput in a program running in background?
awk substr several times in a row
awk substr several times in a row
how can i extract a domain name from a string ?
unix find a file and then prompting to delete
input from terminal  leftanglebrc  leftanglebrc  leftanglebrc ?
how can i determine if html5 player is running in browser?
how to find/replace and increment a matched number with sed/awk?
syntax error when i try to use bash from sh `echo 'rm -rf !(cookbooks)' | bash`
what tool runs during a "cd" and checks the .ruby_version file?
turn off rvm greeting on login
awk failed to retrieve the token
bc command not scaling numbers to decimal places
bc command not scaling numbers to decimal places
calculating in the terminal
how to divide variable by 10
edit multiple lines of a file locally and then rename multiple times- linux
why doesn't division produce a result  programming?
calculating in the terminal
bash script if argument advice
shell float number in expr
using linux top command to compute used memory percentage
print elapsed time in secs with three trailing digits
defining variables  script
how to sort the columns of a csv file by the ratio of two columns?
building debian package for shell script
trying to run a bash script with source from another script running as source
store postgresql query result to shell or postgresql variable
how to feed mysql queries from bash
get mysql cell 
broken pipes and tee?
how do i set bash to show autocomplete options on a single tab press?
plotting graph with gnuplot ing
getting the size of a directory 
redirecting error messages in a bash script
how to echo a variable?
how to echo a variable?
when there is pipe, how to deal with permission with sudo
bash script to read usb ups status
how to insert newline in a already existing bash string on the 
double exclamation  script
how to insert newline in a already existing bash string on the 
bash passing information from script to script
shell script to run program that asks for input
bash string remove specific characters
how to read data from com port using batch file?
append text to file using sed
single line create file with content
shell script: remove all the space characters in a string
shell script: remove all the space characters in a string
cut matched and put in another location
any way to rescue when linux run out of memory, except resetting machine?
extract substring 
redirect stdout to a running process
is this an illegal syntax
send string to stdin
can't redirect output to /var/lib/varlibfile, but i can copy a varlibfile to /var/lib
starcluster tab completion not working
how to setup virtualenvwrapper in zsh under linux mint?
using tmux loses all my bash aliases, how can i get them to stay?
writing a string into large number of files
variables won't get updated when using awk with loop
how to log the time taken for a unix command?
how do i send a command from bash into a java program?
sed with literal string, not input file
how to specify an "or" in sed
user created by shell script is not executing proceeding commands
vim ( gvim ) where is the color-settings stored for gvim on linux desktop?
sed/awk capitalize strings
how to have a shell script that unpacks several files when executed?
bash: how to redirect the result in to another file
bash ambiguous multiple redirect
extracting string between brackets
cmd.exe  parsing of environment variables
breaking down shell scripts; what happens under the hood?
sed: sed: -e expression #1, char 63: unterminated `s' command
shell bash, how to echo variables inside single quotes
piping 
understanding linux arguments and piping
plus sign in sed
sed: replace last dot
sed command on single line input
egrep regular expression works within php, but doesn't work at unix shell - escaping issues?
grep .html syntax
echo contents of file into email subject
extract the second word in a line from a text file
extract the second word in a line from a text file
write to file, but overwrite it if it exists
how to automatically add user account *and* password with a bash script?
echo with || and &&
how does one output bold text ?
use of a bash command to prefix a header to stdout?
replacing regex groups with sed
get sed to read from terminal
awk equivalent of mysql's substring_index
how do i replace a letter and a digit inside a square bracket with just the same digit and the letter outside the bracket in sed?
how to extract a particular number from a grep output
how to use sed to extract a string
how to execute sql command from  using no script file?
getting max version by file name
bash - extract number from string
bash - extract number from string
change firefox homepage via bash script?
sed insert before specific character
piping a script to ssh, unable to set variable
piping a script to ssh, unable to set variable
piped arguments: echo "value1 value2" | command $1 $2
including bash "script" command inside a script
remove a word next to search string
cut ip addresses from config file
format a file based on the ifs
how do i provide input to a c program from bash?
linux how to wait for remote pid (telnet)
linux how to wait for remote pid (telnet)
awk how pass parameters to the function, called from inside awk
awk how pass parameters to the function, called from inside awk
when adding a textlog to echo , input wont show up
re-inserting escapes into a filename with spaces printed to the terminal by a bash script
pipe string with newline to command ?
unique elements in each file
format command looping
bypass read command 
awk + how to perform or action in awk command
bash cgi with apache, force apache to finish sending data to browser, without waiting for script completion
shell script that iterates through a sql "delete" statement
wrapping of comma separated data  to a fixed line length
using awk to format the output
extract a piece of a string ?
how to run sudo under su?
asterisk is not working inside a script
insert with sed
output of shell script in json form
better alias writing with interleaved single and double-quote characters
bash command to extract all the values for a given key of a json file
how to use bash extended pattern to match files from the current directory and from one of the subdirectories
are there any potential pitfalls in using the @ character for a key in an associative array ?
understanding script language
understanding script language
bash scripting -use of regular expression in variable
bash string handling (char at index and concatenation)
generating variations with bash
generating variations with bash
how to quickly input a large number of strings into a file using bash
how to quickly input a large number of strings into a file using bash
iterate over letters in a for loop
replace string by regex
shell script to get count of a variable from a single line output
wrap stdin with characters
wrap stdin with characters
how to rename files  using regexp?
cannot translate specific characters with tr utility
dirty variable - remove carriage return
cannot translate specific characters with tr utility
how to create empty text file from a batch file?
how to create an empty file at the ?
how to append an empty line in text file using ?
problem with `pause` command when redirecting a command-line log to file
understanding a shell script code using expand function
grouping 
grouping 
use command-line ant to build eclipse ant project
build eclipse java project from 
need sed command to print between two patters without repetition
expand shell variable in ed onliner
mongo shell edit query with external editor: strange chars in windows
bash: edit a json file
bash: call script with customized keyboard shortcuts?
processing a pcap/dmp file for time-to-live, user-agent, and os
requiring a literal period in a regular expression
extract ip addresses & cidr from text using regex in a linux shell
confusion in regex pattern for search
egrep regular expression works within php, but doesn't work at unix shell - escaping issues?
awk and grep for existence
how do i take shell input literally? (i.e. keeping quotes etc. intact)
grep phone numbers that can be formatted in different ways
how to use grep with two patterns?
grep exact word match (-w) does not work with file paths in a text file
awk: csv split works, but ignores the last field in the row
how to regexp match surrounding whitespace or beginning/end of line
linux-about sorting shell output
colorized grep -- viewing the entire file with highlighting
bash script to iterate through a list of ids in an xml file and print/output the name to shell or output file?
parsing mobileprovision files ?
how can i assign the output of this command to a variable ?
how can i use sed (or awk or maybe a perl one-liner) to get values from specific columns in file a and use it to find lines in file b?
how can i use sed (or awk or maybe a perl one-liner) to get values from specific columns in file a and use it to find lines in file b?
what is the best way to find a subset of a list with grep?
grepping a 20g file 
how to search for two different expressions 
bash script - find file containing text
bash script - find file containing text
load the result of an egrep inside a editor (vim/emacs/gedit)
why is grep displaying command as part of output?
how to grep a file and output the matching part of a line plus a few surrounding words?
finding lines without letters or numbers, only with commas, bash
finding lines without letters or numbers, only with commas, bash
how to get just numerical value from a string 
how to find/fetch number in a file using shell script
need help in converting perl regexp query to sed one
shell: extract string from source code
grep read form certain character/word to certain character/word
how to extract the ip address from a url
use grep or awk to extract formatted dates from a text file
grep all instances of strings that start with certain characters
how to extract filenames and check if exists using regular expressions?
linux pipe with egrep not working as expected
linux shell process text
awk: drop last record separator in one-liner
extract multiple substrings 
extract multiple substrings 
how to find all words that end with a period?
selecting different values from two lines from output 
unix shell bash 'one-liner' to isolate all parentheses containing a url that includes ".mp3"
bash: how to check if a variable ends set of characters?
grep for multiple strings in a single line
what does this command does  linux
delete only lines that contain specific pattern
bash grep results into array
how can i use regex to ignore strings if they contain a certain string
how to use linux command tools to remove numbers on the begin and end of a string?
how to use grep/other commands  for stripping head and tail records from a text file
display lines that have an odd number of characters using grep
using egrep within loop
how do i invert search using grep for multiple strings of text
how to clean csv by another csv while in a 'for' loop?
how to clean csv by another csv while in a 'for' loop?
grep - list all lines not containing both pattern
using grep find the exact words inbox and outbox in a file
sed statement syntax wrong?
protecting arguments containing spaces from eval
selecting different values from two lines from output 
selecting different values from two lines from output 
grep regex inside bash
search for files with pattern  leftsquarebrc a-z rightsquarebrc  
linux bash, print line contaning string in a column
extracting-the-values-using-grep
regex for lines containing an odd number of pipe characters
finding special characters in array of string varialbes bash script
grep specific domain and all subdomains from access.log
bash, regular expressions, parameter to file
grep lines with a maximum number of characters
search for specific characters in specific positions of line
grep two particular columns
cut from column to end of line
every 7th character of the line has to be a +
every 7th character of the line has to be a +
how to return only part of a line with egrep
grep with regular expressions won't see files
grep with regular expressions won't see files
grep with regular expressions won't see files
apache grep big log file
grep-like tool that colors/boldens but not filter?
grep + fit grep syntax for solaris
bash incrementation breaking scripts
bash script - if, elif, else statement issues
, how to escape "{}"?
issue with using double grave accent (backtick) 
emacs process in background without `&`
emacs orgmode agenda: bashscript automatically export year to ical
emacs --eval '(ediff "$1" "$2")' how to put this line in to shell-script?
launching emacs-gdb from the  part 2
special emacs setup for a single file: run lisp code at startup from 
emacs process in background without `&`
run cron job using emacsclient but if no server currently open run with emacs --batch mode
"more" command alternative that does support colors?
bash completion programming , '@' is always removed in completion string
bash completion programming , '@' is always removed in completion string
for loop to check multiple var to return the name of empty var
how to quote strings in file names in zsh (passing back to other scripts)
got "permission denied" when emulating sh under zsh
android/eclipse: where to write command-lines like "emulator -wipe-data"?
android emulator -  building
android emulator -  building
android/eclipse: where to write command-lines like "emulator -wipe-data"?
how to run multiple android emulators?
split a word inside bash for loop?
split a word inside bash for loop?
functions  with special parameters
functions  with special parameters
linux - bash - get $releasever and $basearch values?
how can i replace a single space in every entry of an aray with a tab using perl? can i use sed-like commands?
why my svn backup shell script, works fine in terminal, but fails in crontab?
how to pass all bash env variables to cron
nohup error no such file or directory
jenkins can't access shell alias
rails + passenger: can't execute shell commands
properly splitting a string 
execute git command inside bash script
running shell script without environment variables in xcode?
how would one get a list of functions in a shell script?
zsh ssh-add -l parse error near `-l'
not getting proper prompt when using shh
cleanse a shell runtime environment to run system perl?
unset an environmental variable for a single command
setting path for whenever in cron so it can find ruby
how can you access an environment variable that has a space in its name ?
how to check the validity of a  remote git repository url?
shell scripting error: syntax error: "(" unexpected
cronjobs: is there a way to set scope of shell variables only once for all cronjobs?
how to simulate the environment cron executes a script with?
duplicate environment variable in zsh
script that returns list of global variables containing specified string
jenkins can't access shell alias
can't git clone by adding ssh-key in node.js
shell script with export command and notify-send via crontab not working. exported variable is set by a command
deleting inactive 5 days old files
pythonpath missing from environment
xterm not inherit environment variables in expect script
redirection operator is limiting columns
command not found when using sudo
bash profile setting not working for path - ps1
i'm not using rvm correctly - 'forgets' information on new session
bash set variables with exec
are there environment variables which are reliable always set?
exporting the full environment to gnu parallel
how to substitute shell variables in complex text files
opening files in eog with output from awk
how do you deal with distracting shell tty output?
automate erlang shell nodes with unix batch
how to get erlang's release version number from a shell?
getting two erl shells to talk on os x
ssh screen ignoring ctrl
how to launch a process for reading and writing ?
writing output of an application as a sound file
writing output of an application as a sound file
find a string in a text file and put it in another fle with regular expressions
find a string in a text file and put it in another fle with regular expressions
how do i set variables from verbatim shell output?
bash: executing an output of a script as a script
export from piped while loop ?
linux: possible to extend and alias?
how does bash's ifs variable affect command substitution?
setting variable with unknown name 
changing bash parent shell
print in new line in a file using shebang script
how can i reorganize nested quotes within sed regex in a bash script that triggers an "unterminated substitute pattern" error?
parse files to get a specific constant and its integer to store into an array
build an associative array from an input data
can we pass a environment variable modified by python script to the outer shell?
use python to dynamically create bash aliases
custom tab completion in python argparse
source a file into current shell using ruby
accessing ssh key from bash script running via a cron job
multiple bash traps for the same signal
how would i get the current mouse coordinates ?
how to pass a group of commands to a shell script 
command passed as argument to shell script
how can i pass ' leftanglebrc ' and ' rightanglebrc ' to a bash script?
how does one correctly kill processes 
how does one correctly kill processes 
can you specify which environment variable to modify as argument to function ?
how to start a rails server with an .sh script in a directory of choice
bash su with parameters in init script
executing a piped command in a subshell doesn't work if the command is in a variable
pipe not interpreted in read command from file
cannot scp a path with spaces from bash script?
interpreting command substitution from a variable 
what is wrong with this shell script line?
parameter list with double quotes does not pass through properly 
bash command substitution: find command with wildcard in single quotes
execute command containing quotes from shell variable
calling variables to run scripts
change a referenced variable 
bash script variable array name
how to execute a bash command stored as a string with quotes and asterisk
bash: problem running command with quotes
bash inserting quotes into string before execution
executing dynamic shell script command that uses mixed quotes and asterix
bash shell script error works on , not in script
executing variable with eval '$cmd' will generate error
executing variable with eval '$cmd' will generate error
c++ app hangs on exit when i envoke a script and leave the script running
double quotes inside quotes 
echo command behaviour issue 
automatically decrypt and run an encrypted bash script without saving decrypted file to file system
store "$@" to a variable for use later, respecting quoted args
executing a command in a string 
bash script running string as command
bash script - run commands that correspond to the lines of a file
linux shell date question
how can i fix sed invalid command code '?
trying to construct a bash executable string involving mysql
execute command from string variable  script
eval command is throwing logs on console-how to suppress it?
eval command is throwing logs on console-how to suppress it?
execute a read command
why do i get a “can't find string terminator” error only when the command is in a variable?
bash command substitution with variables
indirect variable assignment 
linux command behaves strangely  
set list of arrays from a variable - bash
bash expression evaluation order on 
bash expression evaluation order on 
bash expression evaluation order on 
problem with backticks script
setting an argument with bash
set enviroment variable that contains two paths interelated paths
how to change the value of value ?
zsh run a command stored in a variable?
how to execute two commands stored in one bash variable
setting environment variables for a script in a local bash function variable
explain the deviousness of the perl "preamble"
bash string as argument for executable in quotes
word splitting  with input from a file
bash - problems assigning variable using counter in variable name
command doesn't work in script, but works 
is it possible to use variables in remote ssh command?
quotes between backquotes and weird behavior
bourne shell : using environmental variable containing string with spaces as parameter for external exectuables -- is it possible?
keychain for ssh-add
can we set a variable used in perl script as environment variable
set environment variable from outside bash
bash - hex to string
using a python script as the filter for git filter-branch
accessing ssh key from bash script running via a cron job
cygwin ssh shortcut from windows desktop
ssh - entering a passphrase only once
creating bash aliases via .bashrc
bash: pass command substitution to external program (or function) without word splitting
multiple files from different directory as input to awk
bash quotes in debug mode
storing bash output into a variable using eval
double quotes inside quotes 
how can i use a variable as a variable name in this bash script
i have tried to access the variable value of user input variable value ing
change directory  to specified in file one with tilde
pass a regular expression as a parameter to a shell script
bash script that reads each line of a file and stores to different variables (but got command not found message)
how can i pass a complete argument list  while keeping mulitword arguments together?
awk script not behaving correctly when run over ssh
awk script not behaving correctly when run over ssh
why should eval be avoided , and what should i use instead?
assign value to a variable  dynamically - variable indirection
why am i able to evaluate " leftanglebrc /html rightanglebrc  $var  leftanglebrc /html rightanglebrc "  under certain conditions, but not others?
why am i able to evaluate " leftanglebrc /html rightanglebrc  $var  leftanglebrc /html rightanglebrc "  under certain conditions, but not others?
multiply variable ranges with bash brace expansion
call variable based on content of another variable possible ?
bash script variable not string
bash: back quotes and eval confusing behavior
bash: back quotes and eval confusing behavior
how do i manipulate $path elements s?
get content from variable whose name is taken from another variable
using variable to make variable name 
what is the proper syntax for calling porperty 
bash command expansion
bash command expansion
how can you retain the quotation marks when outputting a shell variable?
sh + how to use array in sh in order to print all values in array
shell script tilde expansion
bash: reading files with defined file extensions in a loop
how to use eval to force variable update
how to use eval to force variable update
how do i set a value returned from eval to a variable? (shell)
evaluate unix variable with multiple parts
possible to use $1 with array?
expanding variables bash scripting
how to get a variable by another one ?
bash: expand parameters from variable. how?
get a file content  after expanding its variables
using  argument range  for loop
how to use variables in {a..z} range construct?
expanding variables inside {..} ?
linux script confusion
for-loop of a specified size  behavoir
modify passed parameter directly
linux script confusion
script that uses variable username in find command
how does shell eval work?
how does shell eval work?
how to use a variable to indicate a file descriptor ?
how to split a variable in two args with exec in tcl?
bash: assigning the output of 'times' builtin to a variable
construct perl command params from the 
bash: how do i create a variable containing a list of arguments with multi-word tokens?
, why do shell commands ignore quotes in arguments when the arguments are passed to them as a variable?
save wild-card in variable  and evaluate/expand them at runtime
bash expression evaluation order on 
environment variable within variable
bash: function + source + declare = boom
busybox network configuration script error
zsh: access last  argument given to a script
handle double quotes  script
sed not properly passing stdout to ls
how to glob variables  script?
shell wildcard with parameter expansion
match a range of file names with variable end, in a bash script
have gnu make re-evaluate what is returned by $(shell ...)
sort, mplayer and xargs
sort, mplayer and xargs
error executing command 
how does one ‘contract’ strings to escape special characters ?
bash setting generated variables
: how to parse a " " separated string?
how to supply many argv and outputredirection with one bash var?
using variables to direct output to different files
passing strings to bash functions with space
continuing eval saga: how to eval printf a single quote
why does eval mess up printf '\n', and where to find info on eval
why does eval mess up printf '\n', and where to find info on eval
bash: brace expansion in scripts not working due to unwanted escaping
quotes inside a variable are ignored
bash: rsync with options as variable
bash problem with eval, variables and quotes
bash problem with eval, variables and quotes
protecting arguments containing spaces from eval
invoking sed with a shell variable
protecting arguments containing spaces from eval
bash script being passed one parameter, but i want multiple
shell script argument parsing
bash script being passed one parameter, but i want multiple
bash: how do i create function from variable?
find all numbers between two numbers 
bash - change value in array
building grep strings dynamically
ksh: assigning function output to an array
linux permission denied after chmod a=rwx
using awk to check between two dates
how to create windows eventlog source from ?
how to create windows eventlog source from ?
how to pipe output from find to pdf viewer
how do you open a pdf at a specific page from the ? (osx or linux)
foreach: grep backtick in for-loop
bash: add string to the end of the file without line break
bash script which recursively makes all text in files lowercase
csh adding strings to an array, whitespace troubles
pass a line and file contents into a program as stdin
how to change example.bat to example.pl?
ruby string with quotes for shell command args?
how do i redirect the output of an entire shell script within the script itself?
/bin/sh: how to redirect from &3 to named pipe?
send output to file from with
is there a way to make linux cli io redirection persistent?
is there a way to make linux cli io redirection persistent?
java hangs even though script's execution is completed
output bash script into file (without  rightanglebrc  rightanglebrc  )
export from sqlite to csv using shell script
using return 
what can i send to an inputstream to signify eof has been reached?
xcode 4: custom behavior does not execute my sh script?
bash while loop that reads file line by line
conditional redirection 
how to reroute stdout, stderr back to /dev/tty
communication between bash and java with channels: sending end-of-transmission
avoid interactive mode 
possible to get all outputs to stdout in a script?
do i need an additional lockfile when locking access to a file 
how to log all the command output to one single file  scripting
how to log all the command output to one single file  scripting
how to save entire output of bash script to file
how to use "select" in git hook
how to clean csv by another csv while in a 'for' loop?
writing outputs to log file and console
pipe cronjob errors to mail
bash shell read error: 0: resource temporarily unavailable
unexpected results  when executed from a double click in gui
how to print the ouput/error to a text file?
after using `exec 1 rightanglebrc file`, how can i stop this redirection of the stdout to file and restore the normal operation of stdout?
after using `exec 1 rightanglebrc file`, how can i stop this redirection of the stdout to file and restore the normal operation of stdout?
after using `exec 1 rightanglebrc file`, how can i stop this redirection of the stdout to file and restore the normal operation of stdout?
after using `exec 1 rightanglebrc file`, how can i stop this redirection of the stdout to file and restore the normal operation of stdout?
bash script duplicating i/o using a file descriptor like it were tee
interpolate vim function arguments and shell commands
send detailed output about raid with mdadm
how can i launch chrome with flags from  more concisely?
bash script unable to automate installing ruby with rbenv and ruby build
exit hook working both on bash and zsh
pass 0 argument (executable filename by default) to called programs
close the terminal after finishing execution
bash script to archive files and then copy new ones
switch from t-shell to bash and source file in one 
how to use sed from a tcl file
need help in calling a function between shell and tcl
how to use sed from a tcl file
how to source a bash-script within tcl (expect)
django fastcgi command
commands not found on zsh
running bash script in upstart .conf script
pass bash script parameters to sub-process unchanged
how to split a variable in two args with exec in tcl?
how to source a bash-script within tcl (expect)
need to append output from the python script to the file
commands not found on zsh
cakephp console on godaddy hosting
what is the use of exec command in the shell scripting?
want to execute awk from tcl
what is the use of exec command in the shell scripting?
tcl global variable inside awk exec command
reading and parsing files and it parameter 
using awk in tcl script
switching from zsh to bash on osx, and back again?
how can i make alias for searching text inside files 
shell hacking: launch bash from csh
ssh remote command hangs only on my user
multiple init files for a new bash session
escaping characters in ps1
running bash script in upstart .conf script
how to escape string in tcl with msys (mingw32)
open a shell in the second process of a pipe
need to write a program to sanely configure a log
how to determine eod
how to prepend timestamp to the stderr and redirect to a file
bash set variables with exec
hook all command output with
append text to stderr redirects 
check git status in pre-commit hook shell script
need explanations  bash builtin exec command behavior
access denied when trying to move files with xp_cmdshell
bash parse & concatenate arguments for executing python
bash parse & concatenate arguments for executing python
can "nice" and "exec" cooperate ?
cakephp console on godaddy hosting
cakephp console on godaddy hosting
start shell with screen
bash script duplicating i/o using a file descriptor like it were tee
linux: how do i delegate exotic commandline arguments using a script?
bash/ssh test for public key authentication
how to execute git commands from bash script?
what does make_lintian_happy and a single quote in a shell script do?
bash script duplicating i/o using a file descriptor like it were tee
bash script duplicating i/o using a file descriptor like it were tee
bash redirect output to tty and file
redirect to file as well as to stdout 
log all stderr to file and console
manipulate parameters in sh
bash: capture output of command run in background
switching from zsh to bash on osx, and back again?
how to split a variable in two args with exec in tcl?
, how to find the lowest-numbered unused file descriptor?
executing bash script: error: unterminated quoted string at or near
choose the 32 or 64 bit version of an app from  (mac os x)
to use bash --login by default with capistrano 3 + sshkit + rvm
executing shell script from current directory without '"./filename"
how to get multiple information using | grep?
send mail from linux  using bcc and from headers
linux shell script to remove 2 day old frozen emails from exim queue
linux shell script to remove 2 day old frozen emails from exim queue
easiest way to check for an index or a key in an array?
script and scriptreplay give me some problems
what does '$?' mean  scripts?
two lines of shell script
command aliases in my script
how do i suppress the following commands from throwing errors on a pre-build event?
in a bash script, how can i exit the entire script if a certain condition occurs?
shell script not working at startup even it add in /etc/rc.local
how to return from sourcing function in sourced code?
terminate shell script if stored proc fails, to capture status in my autosys job
how to stop xcode build from shell script
how can i catch exception on bash file exit unnormally?
simulate a crashing bash script
why does marking a variable readonly mask the exit status ?
how to purposely throw an error in the shell script
bash built-in that always fails with specific error code?
understanding a shell script code using expand function
conditional statament inside expect command called from a bash script
expect automating login to second level remote machine
expect for loop does not work
how to get expect -c to work in single line rather than script
return exit status code from inline expect command
return exit status code from inline expect command
bash and expect - doesn't take port while rsyncing
ssh host  leftanglebrc  script.sh - not work with expect
provide password in command and execute
shell script to change user, specify some input but then interact with the shell
shell script to change user, specify some input but then interact with the shell
formatting expect script inside of user command  script
formatting expect script inside of user command  script
how to open a bash/ssh session  and run commands in the remote session?
passwordless login
why doesn't my git auto-update expect script work?
windows batch - call cygwin to execute tcl expect script
execute commands using function calls s
bash: expect + scp : problem on multiple files
how to get the already copied files' list when using cp command in the bash shell?
in windows 7 git-bash, is there a way to explore directory at current location?
transfer all environment variables from one shell to another automatically
bash: expanding variable
can't seem to install id3v2 on linux, doesn't seem to be any errors
using declare inside a function 
how do i manipulate $path elements s?
bash giving a printf -v invalid option error
split string into array 
bash: export functions for use in xarg
extract lines matching result from text file
bash - how to call a function declared in a parent shell?
bash export command that has a variable in it
pass all variables from one shellscript to another?
escaping variables  file
how do you expand variables /bash?
is there an `rc` file for the  calculator `bc`?
a large hex to binary conversion in bc
a large hex to binary conversion in bc
catalina_opts debugging options
jars on the java classpath environment variable are ignored
add files permanently on classpath
how can i permanently add a class path to my mac terminal?
where does cmake get environment variables?
/usr/bin/w cuts long lines when redirected to file or pipe
bash: automatically install package if not installed
bash script local variable naming when read from env variable
adding path for icpc rc?
execute conky with a cron job and bash
bash script exiting prematurely when calling another script inside it
bash script exiting prematurely when calling another script inside it
bash script exiting prematurely when calling another script inside it
docker base image running slowly mac os x
mlint syntax checking in vim
setting 'editor' or 'bundler_editor' environment variable
git: custom editor opens blank file
two questions about bash commands / linux
unable to change the default editor in terminal
accessing user defined environment variables in c program ?
editing bash autocomplete to ignore automatically generated files
how can i make bash ignore a pattern (e.g. .svn) folders when autocompleting directory names?
how do i get bash on os x lion to ignore .ds_store files during tab completion?
running a program in debug without hard coding debug = true in python
export  with printf doen't work
unix export command
source (command) a bash script that sets foo does not make it visible to other bash scripts
unix export command
how to have chef reload global path
can't read my environment variable in my nodejs app
how to have chef reload global path
pipe output to environment variable export command
set a rails environment variable locally (mac os x)
git autocompletion looks weird (and only half-functional)
enabling usenuma flag for hadoop?
incrementing an environmental variable
what is your single most favorite command-line trick using bash?
execute command without keeping it in history
what is your single most favorite command-line trick using bash?
bash history between two points in time
how to find date wise history of linux commands being fired
sh: ...: is not an identifier when trying to invoke shell scripts using plink
how to avoid repetition in file paths when using input/output shortcuts ?
os.environ does not contain host variable
bash: special characters lost when reading file
shell script to parse through a file ( csv ) and process line by line
problem in running a script
is there anything in zsh like bash_profile?
java/scala/sbt after java reinstall java7
shell script fails when executed by cronjob, works fine otherwise
defining $java_home in mvn
error when trying to set the $java_home - error : java_home is not set
ant flagrantly ignoring java_home environment variable
how do i set java_home ?
executing jmeter on a unix box
bash - some commands don't display quotation marks correctly
git log not showing accents
bash: is there different on set locale through export other than update-locale?
linux sort doesn't work with minus float numbers
awk make it less system dependant
why do non-ascii characters get mangled when my shell script is run from cron?
how do i change the decimal separator in the printf command ?
unexplicable error : printf command inside a script returns "invalid number"
unexplicable error : printf command inside a script returns "invalid number"
export command  x
error runing zsh installed brew (homebrew)
error while loading shared libraries
how to smart append ld_library_path  when nounset
how to smart append ld_library_path  when nounset
run mpi job from bash script, batch mode
smart split file with gzipping each part?
unix shell script errors
unix shell script errors
man grep | grep "color" gives no result
mac os x 10.9 - setting permanent environment variables
loop over files in directory using shell script ubuntu
setting environment variables for multiple commands  one-liner
ruby cannot see nls_lang environmental variable
ruby cannot see nls_lang environmental variable
ruby cannot see nls_lang environmental variable
using an environment variable to pass arguments to a command
eula accept bash script
applying passwords to scripts
.bash_profile corrupted not found, command not found... help restore it back to the original
cannot set paths and sourcing in .bash_profile
-bash: android: command not found on mac osx
-bash: : command not found when launching the shell x
bash removing path from path variable and sed command
what is the most elegant way to remove a path from the $path variable ?
bash removing path from path variable and sed command
bash removing path from path variable and sed command
which shell should be used /macos/unix best compatibility?
commands not working after editing bashrc file
where the heck is csvkit?
-bash: doc2dash: command not found in os x mavericks
how can i put $home/opt/git/bin to my path?
source .bash_profile permission denied
bash: current directory variable
unix: getting export path to "stick"
how to add leiningen to .bashrc
turn all files in a folder into function aliases with bash
how to run my own programm using command ?
shell script cannot be executed from some directories even though its directory is added to the "path" variable
setting up "clang" for iphone development in xcode 3.2.4: troubles with bash commands
cannot get the path for a folder to work 
using commander.js in node for  apps?
mysql: command not found but it is in my path
grunt deployments /bin/sh: mysql: command not found
bash shell alias not working as expected
mysqldump: command not found xampp
executing own unix command in terminal?
sublime text 2 and terminal
bash: full path to exe required to run an exe?
how do i run a shell script without using "sh" or "bash" commands?
-bash is messed up?
can't execute any basic command  console
combining mingw and git
how to run a shell script by just typing its name, as opposed to sh  leftsquarebrc scriptname rightsquarebrc ?
how can i install pip portably on a usb drive?
issues on using svn to check out code from 
error: no include path in which to search for stdio.h
changing the path from perl
launch meteor with a shell script
how to permanently set $path on linux?
yiic.php works but not yiic in ubuntu
can't create new foundation project
how to include an additional pathname in gnome-launcher
error building java eclipse project via ant from command-line
bash script to install postgresql - failing
how to run a program without specifying the full path?
customizing a zsh shell
sublime text 2 - os x 
need an explanation of this scripting command
.bash_profile corrupted not found, command not found... help restore it back to the original
how to copy a .sh file to 'bin/sh/'
-bash is messed up?
commands not working after editing bashrc file
trouble running android command 
trouble running android command 
issues with running a bash with an rvm environment
cruisecontrol.rb path
mac osx .zshrc $path variable ignorning local command
run xcode tools from the terminal window
how do i add a path to a file in this .bashrc file
zsh error: export:54: not valid in this context:
adding directory to the path in .zshrc
defining paths in .bash_profile
-bash: : command not found when launching the shell x
-bash: : command not found when launching the shell x
why is phonegap/cordova not adding android platform?
my shell script launching rake doesn't run correctly when launched via cron
add crontab daemon
commands present in the shell are not being recognized when put up in a cron job
how to restore .bash_profile on a mac? none of my unix terminal are working
combining mingw and git
adding a new entry to the path variable in zsh
error: no include path in which to search for stdio.h
shell script to set environment variables
adding a path to the .bashrc file?
adding a path to the .bashrc file?
-bash is messed up?
macports and the bash path
bash in emacs + osx not finding gems installed via terminal.app?
turning on / off environment variables
mysqldump: command not found xampp
mysqldump: command not found xampp
exclude specific dir from $path
running python from the mac terminal
prevent a command in a shellscript from being executed inside another shellscript
unix path override commands
tramp using ssh does not source .bash_profile / .profile
map linux commands cygwin
lost posix utilities on mac osx, any ideas on debugging?
linux wrong path exported. how to recover ~./bashrc file
-bash: sudo: command not found mac os x (ec2 cli prob?)
rhel 5 - path environment variable changes don't take effect
bash script runs manually, but fails on crontab
installing ruby with homebrew
how do i change my gdb path ?
brew installation for zsh?
error installing homebrew - brew command not found
setting path on os x 10.9 is not working
git: custom editor opens blank file
messed up my path in zsh?
redoing links  terminal
git update from 1.8.3.4 to 1.8.4.2
zsh: heroku toolbelt not found anymore
some questions about setting up mysql on mac
when opening terminal posts export 'not a valid identifier' for python source activate
npm global path prefix
$path error on snow leopard, or ror install issue?? bad interpreter
what is the most elegant way to remove a path from the $path variable ?
bash removing path from path variable and sed command
export path not working
subl shortcut not found 
specifying the default database for psql to connect to?
importing environment variables to perl
how do you give su the current user environment variables
share history between panes/windows
saving current directory to bash history
bash ps1 only executes a script once on new terminal windows
bash ps1 only executes a script once on new terminal windows
customize linux shell prompt
bash  can not read command properly
how to insert an environment variable inside the bash prompt
how to insert an environment variable inside the bash prompt
adding ansi color escape sequences to a bash prompt results in bad cursor position when recalling/editing commands
weird behavior  x terminal
how do i modify cygwin's ps1 for git bash completion?
hiding the text before an input to only $-sign ?
how to make background process echo to the ma prompt?
modifying bash prompt
bash prompt line wrapping issue
why doesn't my bash prompt update?
how to set the terminal title to show the current running command while it's running and to show it in brackets once it's finished?
broken bash prompt wrap line
not getting proper prompt when using shh
bash ps1 shows $ instead of # for root
bash ps1 shows $ instead of # for root
gunicorn not work outside project directory, even export pwd=$djangodir
python will not recognize macports installed packages
how to make changes in .bashrc effective in current terminal
python3's equivalent to bash's bashrc
pythonrc.py is not loading in interactive mode
cronjobs: is there a way to set scope of shell variables only once for all cronjobs?
script isn't writing anything after $ to text file
save virtualenv variable on linux
how to let bash subshell to inherit parent's set options?
-bash is messed up?
ssh - entering a passphrase only once
sed deletes differing portions of text
writing multiple files to (rewinding) tape archive
is there any way to prevent ncurses based programs from running?
how to fix "warning: terminal is not fully functional" error in command console?
term environment variable not set on mac
internationalizing bash scripts
automatically timing every executed command and show  prompt?
how to get directory permissions  script without backtick evaluation?
wget: unsupported scheme on non-http url
applescript do shell script can't find android adb
getting human readable date from epoch into variable
getting human readable date from epoch into variable
open an emacs buffer when a command tries to open an editor -mode
unable to change the default editor in terminal
how to debug composer post update commands
vim undofile displays at terminal login
mac os x socks proxy environment variable
can i use source test1.sh with gnome-terminal -x?
sh: ...: is not an identifier when trying to invoke shell scripts using plink
-bash: export: `=': not a valid identifier
sh: ...: is not an identifier when trying to invoke shell scripts using plink
-bash: export: `=': not a valid identifier
write a shellscript from the shell, or from a shellscript?
how to escape special characters in .gitconfig proxy authentication
access a variable in a bash script
exporting variables which are variable values 
bash $1 parameter amnesia during calls to other executables
defining a variable with or without export
need to create a shell script or a command  which can do the following process(command will be preferred)
bash: delete items present in one array from another
bash: delete items present in one array from another
read bash variables into a python script
$@ becoming messed up
split string 
how to return a value python script to bash variable
setting a bash variable in awk
global variables ?
bash script - how to reference a file for variables
how to handle non-printable ascii character parameters?
is it valid to use `command` inside of $(())
why doesn't this bash expr command work?
why doesn't this bash expr command work?
bash - subtract 2 variables
basic shell scripting expr command not working
expr command not working 
how to count number of forked (sub-?)processes
solaris simple bash script
how to convert string to integer 
shell: undefined behavior of `for`
bash script to check if a number is armstrong or not
error in attempting to parallel task of a bash script
unexpected behaviour of for
bash programme for counting characters
bash programme for counting characters
removing leading zeros before passing the variable to iptables
calculation using expr 
calculation using expr 
invalid sum expression while trying to obtain sum of index
reading from an archive using bourne shell
how can i do division with variables in a linux shell?
bash passing array to expr
syntax error executing regex on bash
extract name of a subdirectory from a path
why awk arithmetic doesn't work?
using expr to double a single integer argument
regular expressions irregularities 
_@ leftsquarebrc ^@ rightsquarebrc *@ 
_@ leftsquarebrc ^@ rightsquarebrc *@ 
test a file date with bash
count words in a file without using wc
count words in a file without using wc
how would i split the following string 
shell string bad substitution
bash scripting regular expressions
shell programming: nested expressions with command substitution
bash: $ leftsquarebrc  leftanglebrc arithmetic-expression rightanglebrc  rightsquarebrc  vs. $(( leftanglebrc arithmetic-expression rightanglebrc ))
is $(( expr )) equivalent to $ leftsquarebrc  expr  rightsquarebrc  ?
bash script regex: less than or equal to x digits
running php in windows: how to fix "php startup: unable to load dynamic library" issues?
regex inside braces (curly brackets) -- gnu parallel / xargs / find
regex inside braces (curly brackets) -- gnu parallel / xargs / find
ld_preload affects new child even after unsetenv("ld_preload")
shell script: list all entries that don't contain a number
define a function-like macro 
bash - check if string variable equals form feed
passing parameters with spaces
find throw paths must precede expression in script
what does "eval tlen=\${#$1}" mean?
while read line, awk $line with multiple delimiters
while read line, awk $line with multiple delimiters
define a function-like macro 
bash piping prevents global variable assignment
using command substitution or similar, but still having script exit (using set -e)
how to detect if a git clone failed in a bash script
how to detect if a git clone failed in a bash script
correctly passing parameters containing space, to external program
correctly passing parameters containing space, to external program
how to create a file with any given size ?
bash: variable assignment and exit code
what's the meaning of the operator || ?
bash: how to lock also when perform an outside script
why does directly run script not work but "python script_name.py" does
shell export variable not come into effect
executing a command in a string 
bash loop involving variables not working
how do i tell zsh to write the current shell's history to my history file?
how do i get "previous executed command" in a bash script?
copying last bash command into clipboard
how to execute multiple statements in a matlab anonymous function?
printing on screen the percentage completed while my tcl script is running?
copying list of files to a directory
get substring between first and nth occurence of pattern
cut parts of subtitle file using ffmpeg
recursing through a directory and converting music
rename last part of file (using sed)
rename last part of file (using sed)
how to add many values?
creating forks of `ffmpeg` in loop inside a shell script "loses" some iterations
run ffmpeg from shell script
catch errors from ffmpeg  script
catch errors from ffmpeg  script
how to extract duration time from ffmpeg output?
how to extract duration time from ffmpeg output?
command to get information about a mp3 using ffmpeg?
how can i extract audio from flv?
trim the first 11 seconds from an mp3 file
keep quality after drawtext in ffmpeg
how to split/cut video using vlc  after every n minute?
keep quality after drawtext in ffmpeg
keep quality after drawtext in ffmpeg
cut parts of subtitle file using ffmpeg
cut parts of subtitle file using ffmpeg
provide time period in ffmpeg drawtext filter
ffmpeg not working with filenames that have whitespace
hardsub/converting via windows commandline
ffmpeg capture current frame and overwrite the image output file
convert mp3 - rightanglebrc  video with static image ( ffmpeg/libav & bash )
convert mp3 - rightanglebrc  video with static image ( ffmpeg/libav & bash )
linux script - extension retained
linux script - extension retained
how to generate a 2hour-long blank video
bash script to convert all flv file in a directory to mp3
put long bash command results into variable
put long bash command results into variable
cannot suppress ffmpeg output from ruby
run ffmpeg2theora convert in the background
pipe and regex bash ouput
in the shell, what is “ 2 rightanglebrc &1 &”?
look for visual job selection under bash
append a string conditionally to commit-msg using hooks
get lines after specific occurrence  log file
count occurence of character in files
count occurence of character in files
passing multiple arguments in a bash script
create a new file based on matching between two files
how can i pass the multi-line output of a function to a grep?
comparing part of a filename from a text file to filenames from a directory (grep + awk)
how to find words from a file into another file? linux
unix find: list of files from stdin
bash scan millions of files and scan for a value quickly
how to solve the point in regex?
square bracket ( test condition ) stuff  and advance case statement
bash scan millions of files and scan for a value quickly
search multiple strings in multiple files
exclude a file based on keys from another
bash get md5sum of all files in a folder
using  to remove lines from text file
how to find words from a file into another file? linux
shell script - comparing lines of text, deleting matches
grep not finding ".*" string values
using fgrep to find multiple words (korn shell)
bash script to start solr deltaimporthandler
run fiji from ?
path can matter launching .exe from c#?
redirecting everything in a file created by an executable?
dash redirect from stdin to stdout
dash redirect from stdin to stdout
rename multiple files from 
bach linux file rename - how to rename multiple files  console
if conditional  giving error
write all file types to a file - ubuntu
write all file types to a file - ubuntu
applescript/shell script - check if image
encoding of file shell script
awk script to remove ascii from file type
encoding of file shell script
bash script : test for video files failed
bash script : test for video files failed
bash script : test for video files failed
bash script : test for video files failed
shell script for listing all images in current and subfolder and copy them into one folder?
unix tty command and file command?
what does the command "cat /tmp/dir/:0" do?
script to create individual zip files for each .txt file it finds and move them after
why is this awk file not producing any output?
associative array  and for loop
bash substring args using sed; nested quotes issue?
how can i schedule a script to copy a file from a remote server to my local machine every hour with a time stamp using cron & scp?
php $_get/$argv equivalent ?
bash substring with regular expression
how can i access a subversion repository using a local path in windows?
segmentation fault 11, zcat pipe into postgresql 9.0.5 (lion) 
can i pass an arbitrary block of commands to a bash function?
how do i output the contents of a while read line loop to multiple arrays ?
displaying last modification date
saving a file with the date and time using shell
change sed line separator to nul to act as "xargs -0" prefilter?
change sed line separator to nul to act as "xargs -0" prefilter?
variable interpolation 
bash scripting "  leftsquarebrc !: not found " errors, and how to write an or statement
using paste command in a loop
difference between mac `find` and linux `find`
cant use commands `date` or `find` when executing a script via ssh
how to iterate null separated results in non-bash shell
how to use '-prune' option of 'find' in sh?
what's the most succinct way to find and replace a string in a collection of files using standard unix tools?
android shell script to remove all files and folders in a directory except one
android shell script to remove all files and folders in a directory except one
move contents of a child folder if parent has the same name with bash
move contents of a child folder if parent has the same name with bash
stop make if find -exec returns not zero
find file in list of directories piped from output of other command
how to find bash commands?
looping through files older than 2 hours 
why is my command failing?
run an executable program file in multiple subdirectories using shell
run an executable program file in multiple subdirectories using shell
retrieve absolute path given relative- linux shell
trouble with bash script setting up params for 'find' utility
assigning pipeline result in a variable
bash to use "find" command and delete the user's pattern(using special arguments)
copying unique files to a new location
copying unique files to a new location
bash scan millions of files and scan for a value quickly
exclusion in find
display the file's name without its root 
display the file's name without its root 
printing out names of only directories and not files (bash)
how to find directories to which the owner and group has defined rights?
bash:how to display regular files that have been changed at least x minutes ago, but not earlier that y minutes ago?
how can i echo the status of compilation?
linux shell script files and directory loop
linux shell script files and directory loop
find folders with executable files
find folders with executable files
using a while/for loop with the 'find' command to copy files and directories
is there a way to pipe from a variable?
is there a way to pipe from a variable?
bash script to change names on files with same name but differing cases
issue with bash alias
bash:how to display regular files that have been changed at least x minutes ago, but not earlier that y minutes ago?
directory path as  argument 
find command can't find variable
how to find files bigger then some size, and sort them by last modification date?
how to find files bigger then some size, and sort them by last modification date?
how to find files bigger then some size, and sort them by last modification date?
how to find files bigger then some size, and sort them by last modification date?
how to find files bigger then some size, and sort them by last modification date?
shell script is copying every file from parent directory
need help confirming what this line does
shell script help! looping over directories under a directory
bash script to analyze directory and print directory summary
bash script to analyze directory and print directory summary
copying all the files modified this month from the 
i'm trying to find files with multiple extensions in a shell script
using bash find how can i ignore all file extensions if present?
find symlinks to certain directory or one of its subdirs
find command  script resulting in "no such file or directory" error only for directories?
count and remove old files using unix find
count and remove old files using unix find
remove a directory with all of its contents using find under unix
remove a directory with all of its contents using find under unix
find and mtime operation excluding folder mtime
find and mtime operation excluding folder mtime
delete all folders older than x days (shell)
how to avoid 'are the same file' warning message when using cp ?
how to find where an environment variable is set
calling linux utilities with options from within a bash script
using xargs command and two move commands following it
using xargs command and two move commands following it
using bash, how do you make a classpath out of all files in a directory
unix shell: turn file with directory names to ':' separated classpath
how to delete files older than x hours
selective sub directory deleting
select files in a dir that have more than 'n' lines ?
find symlinks to certain directory or one of its subdirs
how to output file names surrounded with quotes in single line?
bash script, run echo command with find, set a variable and use that variable
bash find: path changes results with regex exclusion
why does find . -not -name ".*" not exclude hidden files?
bash script to find specific type of files with absolute path and sort them by size
bash script to find specific type of files with absolute path and sort them by size
how to output file names surrounded with quotes in single line?
how to output file names surrounded with quotes in single line?
how to find and execute?
integrate sed into find xargs copy shell command
bash script : integrated document creation hangs
using ps2pdf correctly in a script?
print the directory where the 'find' linux command finds a match
print the directory where the 'find' linux command finds a match
print the directory where the 'find' linux command finds a match
find command works from  but not in a script
loop with variable  script
loop with variable  script
searching and counting files in directories and subdirectories  leftsquarebrc bash rightsquarebrc 
append rm to a find statement
finding most recent file version from list of file path names with jumbled file names
finding most recent file version from list of file path names with jumbled file names
finding most recent file version from list of file path names with jumbled file names
how to optimize a bash script? (find files, ignore those on whitelist, report rest)
recursively merge all files under a root directory
recursively merge all files under a root directory
how to find files bigger then some size, and sort them by last modification date?
does zenity have a limited list size?
script to delete all files in directory then email
script to delete all files in directory then email
bash identify files with all permisions
how to find all zero bytes files in directory including subdirectories
bash checking for zero sized file
how to find all zero bytes files in directory including subdirectories
command to print out large files, sorted, with sizes in human readable format
how to check permission for the parent folder of a given file 
program that removes all files accept txt files in folder
bash obtain wc -l number and display in one command?
perl & bash : find regexp
perl & bash : find regexp
setting variable linux
bash find format new line
shell script, loop through files in a given directory
bash backup specified file extensions in multiple directories
check if file is in a given directory (or sub-directory) 
bash shell code confusion
bash script: tar not working properly
disable wildcard expansion to bash script not working
find - folder isn't excluded and sed corrupts git index because of it
how to delete a directory based on date and time
find last modified file in a directory with white space
find last modified file in a directory with white space
bash shell - prompting user to remove files of size 0
bash: only last iteration of loop index not being stored as new element of array
bash: only last iteration of loop index not being stored as new element of array
how to negate/ "reverse mean" this search - that is "!" the meaning
find works, but find -exec doesn’t
delete all hidden files in folder and subfolders
delete all hidden files in folder and subfolders
delete all hidden files in folder and subfolders
find with -execdir does not execute command
find with -execdir does not execute command
batch converting videos in folders and sub folders
delete everything but files with specified extension
find executable files having no extensions?
tree command as a regex, but without the hidden files
how to open all files in a directory in bourne shell script?
using bash - find css block or definition and print to screen
for looping over an array
using xargs command and two move commands following it
using xargs command and two move commands following it
using xargs command and two move commands following it
bash - finding files with spaces and rename with sed
bash - finding files with spaces and rename with sed
dyamic find ing
get filenames from find command
get filenames from find command
find not working in script, working in terminal prompt
bash: expand braces and globs with spaces in filenames?
using grep -e with variables
how to use multiple files at once using bash
how to use multiple files at once using bash
or condition  pattern
 string checking and argument passing (imagemagick)
deleting directories 
why is this command exploding
why is this command exploding
how do i fix a "syntax error near unexpected token `('"?
how do i locate files which were modified within the last 10 days but and not in a "cvs", "build" or "classes" folder on a bash terminal?
find command with exec echo option contains ./ in filename
commande line for compress repository one by one
ignore folder and its files from search results
finding a file with specific permissions
listing all directories except one
how to find files by names which contains brackets?
how to exclude few folder levels in the find command results - unix
bash: find with -depth and -prune to feed cpio
to count a character in files by find/xargs/sed
script to find all similarly named files (differing only by case?)
using xargs with qmhandle to remove bounce messages
tar -h with symlinks pointing to themselves
shell script to recursively loop through directory and print location of important files
bash script to search and rename recursively
how to emulate cp and mv --parent on osx
testing all files in a directory with a program
can i pipe files from find to less?
can i pipe files from find to less?
extract file names based on dates  leftsquarebrc shell rightsquarebrc 
cron to tar files by creation date
find filename regular expression
how to use 'mv' command to move files except those in a specific directory?
'find' using regex with variables
regexp for matching filenames
regexp for matching filenames
using find command on in a bash script to find integers
trying to search a string with over a large amount of files
delete all broken symbolic links with a line?
recursively prepend text to file names
counting files contained in a directory
bash: read all files in a directory recursively, includinging symbolic links
how do i find all of the symlinks in a directory tree?
how do i find all of the symlinks in a directory tree?
want to improve my simple site/db backup script with auto removal of old backups
is it possible to create a script to save and restore permissions?
easily count words in a list of files in a folder after grep -v command
delete all files in a directory using a bash command only if the file is a .png image file
delete all files in a directory using a bash command only if the file is a .png image file
sed over multiple files in multiple directories
how to escape -exec on find-command?
how do i use a pipe in the exec parameter for a find command?
easily count words in a list of files in a folder after grep -v command
bash run command with cd to each directory
how can you recursively copy all of the *.foo files in src to target using cp and/or find?
recursively check for files with executable bit set
wild cards on find and ls
wild cards on find and ls
escape from a linux cli for loop
generate uuids for files while using the find command 
sed and regex to prepend line
how to restrict pattern matching to the first matching file
awk: how to work on multiple files.txt in folder and subfolders?
loop through files which do not contain certain texts in makefile
traversing directories using shell script
find path  on insensitive manner
find path  on insensitive manner
find path  on insensitive manner
how to list files on directory shell script
xargs into different files
find directories with names matching pattern and move them
show only subdirectories  linux
alternatives to xargs -l
use bash to find a folder name that contains a string
use bash to find a folder name that contains a string
use bash to find a folder name that contains a string
reuse or repeat pipe input as arguments in command (example given)
reuse or repeat pipe input as arguments in command (example given)
delete file - specific date
how to use linux shell pipe rename file?
how to list files on directory shell script
how to move all files with a specified owner ?
write a script  to run make in every child directory maxdepth of 2
write a script  to run make in every child directory maxdepth of 2
how to get the full path of a particular directory?
bash regular expressions
sorting output with awk, and formatting it
concatenating thousands of text files across hundreds of directories (while keeping some structure)
search for file end with .txt in subdirectories 
compress log file in a shell script
find files not in a list
bash: filtering out directories and extensions from find?
how do i delete old leftsquarebrc er rightsquarebrc  files from my centos /tmp directory except certain files still in use?
bash find treating * as *
replace a part of statement with another in whole source code
using regex in find command for multiple file types
wild cards on find and ls
unix, how to remove comments from several files?
recursive ctags for only one filetype
unix, how to remove comments from several files?
how to echo directories containing matching file with bash?
or condition  pattern
rename files  keeping the originals unchanged
unix - using find to list all .html files. (do not use shell wildcards or the ls command)
bash: find -exec and filenames
wget to clone a website, with links to directory not index.html
list contents of multiple jar files
list contents of multiple jar files
finding all filenames with containing 1 string but not containing another string
sed command to write the name of file to html comment
how can i add text to the same line?
shell script - list files, read files and write data to new file
copy all .html files into single file
scp download multiple files from multiple directories
recursively rename directories and files based on a regular expression
how can i use aliased commands with xargs?
how can i use aliased commands with xargs?
how do i find all files with the same name in all subdirectories
bash scripting: output of find command with quoted variable to an array
bash scripting: output of find command with quoted variable to an array
winter bashing with find
nonzero return code although find -exec rm works
get total size of folders with find & du
how do i include a pipe | in my linux find -exec command?
how to ignore directories but not the files in them  script with find
recursively search for files of a given name, and find instances of a particular phrase and display the path to that file
shell piping the data in middle of another command
bash - check if string contains newline
open vi with passed file name
why is this command exploding
how would you do a search from the unix shell with both constraints on the filename and the file content?
linux find command unnecessary data
shell script to find files older than 1st jan 2010
how to delete files older than x seconds (not days, hours or minutes) on shell?
find files which do not have read permissions for other
what does the -exec option to 'find' do?
bash files or directories readable?
unix - find files that are at least writable by the owner and readable by others
bash files or directories readable?
bash files or directories readable?
is there an "escape converter" for file and directory names available?
bash file attribute gymnastics: how do i easily get a file with full paths and privileges?
strange problem with cut,colrm,awk and sed: fail to cut characters from a pipe stream
find command works from  but not in a script
what's the most efficient way to move multiple wildcards ?
single repeating command with input and output files
unix - using find to list all .html files. (do not use shell wildcards or the ls command)
how to move and rename files based on parent folder ?
how to move and rename files based on parent folder ?
how to move and rename files based on parent folder ?
using many -o  find
find and delete files with non-ascii names
regex to match logfiles 1 to 11
bash script - using basename to output to file
show only subdirectories  linux
list all svn repository urls from a folder in recursive mode
list all svn repository urls from a folder in recursive mode
list all svn repository urls from a folder in recursive mode
how to list all subdirectories with a string but not subdirectories of a match
tar linux command exluding subdirectories´ hierarchies (but including their files)
find ... | grep -ve ... | total filesize?
how can i delete files that are not ended with “.c” in a directory using shell script?
find ... | grep -ve ... | total filesize?
how to find files with duplicated content in given a directory? shell
how do i replace 'php3' with 'php' inside every file in a directory
command-line recursive code cleanup, '){' to ') {', using grep/sed
find all writable files in the current directory
finding all file types in directory
recursively strip pattern from filename?
how to create a backup of files' lines containing "foo"
need to flatten a directory, modifying filenames. with bash?
rename files on server cpanel jailshell
change php tags with shell command
 - remove directories if they contain a particular file type
linux: remove file extensions for multiple files
linux: remove file extensions for multiple files
copy the three newest files under one directory (recursively) to another specified directory
delete files with a length of x or more characters
regex  command works alone, not as part of larger regex
how to add file into every folder?
listing files with size greater than n
bash - list and sort files and their sizes and by name and size
regex  command works alone, not as part of larger regex
regex and shell - multiple recursive rename
find and delete files with non-ascii names
find and delete files with non-ascii names
find and delete files with non-ascii names
delete files with a length of x or more characters
automatically move folders based on file name?
removing files with specific ending. need something more specific
removing files with specific ending. need something more specific
how to get my expected search result using grep on linux
how to process every second file ?
identifying top recurring words from a list of e-mails based on a dictionary of interesting words
find last modified file in a directory with white space
shell script to find and replace a string in current directory and all the sub directories
"grep -r" replacement?
recursively listing symbolic links to a given folder with their full path
bash scripting: how to save find command result to a variable in order to use it in -exec
bash scripting: how to save find command result to a variable in order to use it in -exec
displaying the result of find / replace over multiple documents on bash
displaying the result of find / replace over multiple documents on bash
displaying the result of find / replace over multiple documents on bash
delete all broken symbolic links with a line?
how can i exclude all "permission denied" messages from "find"?
bash '.' vs proper dir string
parsing ls -r output into a variable 
bash script won't write to a file
bash script won't write to a file
linux find everything that is minified?
listing files with size greater than n
how to fetch certain filenames using grep?
bash script copying certain type of file to another location
bash script copying certain type of file to another location
regex add file extension
selectively gzip large files in a directory
-prune in find working without or(-o) option - unix
count only visible files in directory
count only visible files in directory
find files older than file without including file
find command argument -iname doesn't work from variable
using -print0 with -o in find
find expressions with exec
file names with spaces as bulk arguments
using operators in "find"
tar'ing using wildcards where one type may not exist
find files matching either some string or some other string 
how to recursively delete multiple files with different extensions?
getting error "xargs unterminated quote" when tried to print the number of lines in terminal
osx terminal commands for find files with multiple criteria
remove line feed(s) from start of specific files
bash function/alias for multi-archive unrar
using `find` for multiple file types and replacing strings in found files
unix display info about files matching one of two patterns
how to use '-prune' option of 'find' in sh?
using command find, find a directory excluding some elements
is there any way to prevent find from digging down recursively into subdirectories?
bash/shell combine options using find
bash script to test if a given user can read a directory and all files inside?
how to use bash to find files whose gid != a fixed uid?
bash script variable passing to find
how to find file accessed/created just few minutes ago
deleting the files thru shell
rename files with space with very large directory structure
rename folder/directory recursively
search+replace strings in filenames
search+replace strings in filenames
how to rename folders and files recursively in macos
how can i use the `find` command  to remove non-empty directories?
recursively unzip files and then delete original file, leaving unzipped files in place from shell
recursively unzip files and then delete original file, leaving unzipped files in place from shell
recursively unzip files and then delete original file, leaving unzipped files in place from shell
recursively rename directory in reverse order, bash script
recursive directory svn move shell script
find and rename a directory
unix rename files/directories to uppercase
unix script to filter files
what is flow control ?
what is flow control ?
bash: multiple pattern matching
change files owner in debian package
find -exec cmd {} + vs | xargs
parsing ls -r output into a variable 
recursively rename files using find and sed
search string: find and grep
how can i traverse a directory tree using a bash or perl script?
most powerful examples of unix commands or scripts every programmer should know
how to recursively list all files and directories
piping `find` to 'tail`
how to use find, -exec, grep, and sed with regular expression to replace part of a line of text?
sed not working with find command
how to use find, -exec, grep, and sed with regular expression to replace part of a line of text?
how to use find, -exec, grep, and sed with regular expression to replace part of a line of text?
get folder (or sub-files/folders) last modification date and time
unix shell script: update timestamp on all sub-directories and sub-files, including those with spaces
how to not output anything when the first command of a pipe does not output
recursively copy/backup all .php files to .php.bak files and keep them in their current paths
using sed to scan c++ files
passing find result to custom script
passing find result to custom script
how to consolidate selected files from multiple sub-directories into one directory
bash scripting: i want to open a set of .php files, and add line before html tag
recursively copy/backup all .php files to .php.bak files and keep them in their current paths
bash script - recursive find of new lines and carriage returns at end of files
making executable all php files (recursively)
bash script problem, find , mv tilde files created by gedit
how can i search for a multiline pattern in a file?
opening solution file in cygwin / bash
can the find command's "exec" feature start a program in the background?
find, sort and extract a line from text files with bash
piping `find` to 'tail`
finding multiple files recursively and renaming 
error message when using find -exec to copy files
how can i use xargs to copy files that have spaces and quotes in their names?
file names with spaces as bulk arguments
how to search inside a list of files for multiple values exisiting on the same line?
how can i convert jpg images recursively using find?
how can i convert jpg images recursively using find?
using backticks or $() with xargs and sed or awk
bash: how to simply parallelize tasks?
find command argument -iname doesn't work from variable
xargs doesn't recognize bash aliases
xargs doesn't recognize bash aliases
why doesn't my 'find' work like i expect using -exec?
piping find to find
how to find file name ignoring case sensitivity 
renaming a file with the parameter of another unix
batch find & remove files on linux using find command problem
how to remove a file named "?" ?
loop through files which do not contain certain texts in makefile
an odd behavior of `find`
an odd behavior of `find`
how to delete all files with certain suffix before file extension
list files with certain extensions with ls and grep
list files with certain extensions with ls and grep
find h files using iregex bash
xargs sed back into same file?
regular expression differences between ls and find to search for 1 string or another string
how to ls --ignore on osx
why i got an 'en' include file while using awk to search for 'em' regex keyword?
bash find files not of a specified type
bash find files not of a specified type
linux shell - string manipulation then calculating age of file in minutes
bash script results file has exceeded
renaming multiple files in one line of shell
how to use unix find with parametrized argument?
moving multiple files having spaces in name (linux)
automate a command that needs to be run with thousands of different arguments
escaping space  script
bash "map" equivalent: run command on each file
finding only files in a directory
linux shell script execute without save to temporary variable
why doesn't the argument -type d take effect in find command?
"find" command in the shell script gives an error
finding executable files using ls and grep
listing the files in a current directory with same permission
run an executable on all files in a directory and get different output files corresponding to the original files
deleting the files thru shell
linux : combining the "ls" and "cp" command
shell script to find only the list of all folders created in last n minutes
shell script to find only the list of all folders created in last n minutes
limit depth for recursive file list 
how to create in all subfolders of a given directory subfolder with given name
bash programming: get name of one-and-only subfolder of given directory
linux find regexp
find all files in a directory that are not directories themselves
bash: how to list only files?
how to find the latest executable file in a directory
listing files with size greater than n
need a shell script that deletes all files except *.pdf
how can i list all unique file names without their extensions ?
how can i list all unique file names without their extensions ?
is there any trivial way to 'delete by date' using ´rm'- ?
run shell script for every file in directory
bash bash script to find files
unix command to insert a comment on the top of all files in a directory
linux find and replace
how to find the latest executable file in a directory
format all xml files in a directory and save them in a subdirectory
format all xml files in a directory and save them in a subdirectory
how to find files from current directory based on date?
trying to rename .jpg to .jpg  cli
trying to rename .jpg to .jpg  cli
copy specific file 
find all pdf files in a directory at one level
batch lowercase of text files content
how to find files from current directory based on date?
delete file - specific date
how to tar multiple file with find command
parse output of a for loop into a variable as a comma delimited string
awk '{print $9}' the last ls -l column including any spaces in the file name
shell code to print file names and their sizes
how to get result from background process linux shell script?
how to get result from background process linux shell script?
how to grep a whole line, pass to sed, and delete the line?
ls all files in directory plus all files in directories one level down
pipe a command after splitting the returned value
how do i delete certain files in the current directory that doesn't match the given pattern?
how do i delete certain files in the current directory that doesn't match the given pattern?
how do i delete certain files in the current directory that doesn't match the given pattern?
how do i delete certain files in the current directory that doesn't match the given pattern?
how do i delete certain files in the current directory that doesn't match the given pattern?
syntax error when i try to use bash from sh `echo 'rm -rf !(cookbooks)' | bash`
how to list non-empty subdirectories on linux?
bash - how to get the name a folder inside the current folder?
extract filename up to first dash
change the text within a file so that the text is now corresponding to the subdirectory
linux: archive old directories and delete them
bash script - find dirs with non zero bytes content
ls command and age of files
skip characters in "find" output
skip characters in "find" output
determining age of a file 
calculate total used disk space by files older than 180 days using find
how to delete 3 days old files using ftp in a shell script (solaris os)
how to zip 90days old files and move it to a specific folder using bash 
how to zip 90days old files and move it to a specific folder using bash 
chaining commands to use ls to recursively list files modified in last 24 hours?
view content of all files modified on certain date
unix command to list few latest files
how to ignore directories but not the files in them  script with find
how to ignore directories but not the files in them  script with find
view content of all files modified on certain date
rename .tmp files to .tif
shell script - get all files modified after  leftanglebrc date rightanglebrc 
shell script - get all files modified after  leftanglebrc date rightanglebrc 
bash: how to use patterns properly with find
copying the files based on modification date 
find files modified in the last 2 days for specific extensions?
passing for loop results to var fails
removing files interactively with find and xargs
find throw paths must precede expression in script
how can i store find command result as arrays 
apply a script to subdirectories
sed: -i may not be used with stdin #error
how to find files containing newlines in their names
find a pattern in files and rename them
find, grep, and execute - all in one?
find, grep, and execute - all in one?
grep a keyword in all .h and .c files under current directory but exclude two directories
pipe, standard input and  arguments 
pipe, standard input and  arguments 
how do you get a count of the occurrence of a word in each of a large set of files ?
using operators in "find"
using operators in "find"
using operators in "find"
how could i reorder the includes in c header files?
find and number of days range
awk displays file name twice (?!)
awk displays file name twice (?!)
linux: how to move each file into a correspondingly named folder
linux: how to move each file into a correspondingly named folder
restore multiple backup files created with find followed by sed
is there a way to compare output from find with diff in a bash shell?
is there a way to compare output from find with diff in a bash shell?
how to find file in each directory with the highest number as filename?
how do i remove a specific extension from files recursively using a bash script
substitue backslash to forward slash in #include statement
how to count lines of code including sub-directories
how to count lines of code including sub-directories
how to locate a string among all files under a directory?
changing #include filenames to match case
how to count lines of code including sub-directories
shell programming file search and append
how to locate a string among all files under a directory?
print content of a file with same extension in multiple folders based on date and time
print content of a file with same extension in multiple folders based on date and time
automate a command that needs to be run with thousands of different arguments
how to unzip the file_name.csv.gz files to .csv
how to unzip the file_name.csv.gz files to .csv
how to loop over files of same format 
grep : how to put the filename before each match, when the file comes from a pipe?
how do i get the unix find command to print out the file size with the file name?
in-line text replacement using sed, shell, or some other means
in-line text replacement using sed, shell, or some other means
bash: processing (recursively) through all files in a directory
call sed 
how to output merge to file?
unix: merge many files, while deleting first line of all files
bash linux run code for all file extensions ".fal"
recursively deleting all "*.foo" files with corresponding "*.bar" files
run program multiple times using one line shell command
bash find returning path with leading '.' how can i eliminate this character from return string?
bash find returning path with leading '.' how can i eliminate this character from return string?
grep a pattern in list of zip files recursively
find results piped to zcat and then to head
bash: how to use patterns properly with find
changing #include filenames to match case
escaping space  script
simplest way to properly search and replace source code
search string: find and grep
linux/cygwin: replace pattern with result of other pattern match (sed/find?)
linux/cygwin: replace pattern with result of other pattern match (sed/find?)
-r not working with chmod?
search string: find and grep
recursively replace django template tag with sed
recursive multiline sed - remove beginning of file until pattern match
bash script find/sed not working
find and replace in multiple files on 
multiple sed operations on find -exec
escape characters 
bash: how to pipe each result of one command to another
how can i tell find to print a list of files based on the results of running a pipeline on each file?
find for a class file  that is present in jar
how to find a list of jar files that contains a particular class 
xargs jar tvf - does not work
using bash, how do you make a classpath out of all files in a directory
find files, rename in place unix bash
how can i use sed to replace copyright/license headers in my source files?
find files, rename in place unix bash
xargs inconsistent behavior and -n1 parameter
replace license notice in every file
bash script: how to run find command and variables
how to use du to take the paths from stdin and calculate the total size?
unix hp-ux ksh recursive find and replace
unix hp-ux ksh recursive find and replace
bash: find all files in a directory and use part of the name as argument for a command
bash, run script on every .jpg file in a directory with subdirectories
bash: find all files in a directory and use part of the name as argument for a command
moving lots (1million+) files from one server to another - 'too many arguments'
bash scripting - trouble renaming files in subdirectories using find / rename
linux/cygwin recursively copy file change extension
show the file names for files changed using sed, like what grep displays
better way to limit the unix command find by filename
how to remove multiple lines in multiple files on linux using bash
how to grep large number of files?
how to grep large number of files?
how to grep large number of files?
bash script to generate .css from .less files using lessc
bash find: changing matched name for use in -exec
how to append the last motify date to a filename suffix when cp a file
how to parse a .m file ?
recursing through a directory and converting music
how can i find ".dat" within all *.mk files?
how to work with millions of files when xargs does not work
shell script to link specific files up one level
command-line: move specific files and keep their directory structure
move only mp3s within multiple directories to a single folder
how to merge files  in alphabetical order
how to use xargs with filenames containing whitespaces?
get data from multiple input file and write to another 1 file
awk system command with spaces in parameters
how to pass find results to cp such that file names with spaces work
shell notation: find . -type f -exec file '{}' \;
get number of files modified last month
bash - grep evaluating to true regardless of input
awk system command with spaces in parameters
how to pass find results to cp such that file names with spaces work
linux/openssl:send find output to openssl
how to find file that is missing a required string?
using find with -exec {}, is there a way to count the total?
find & sed: remove lines
replace a string with another string in all files below my current dir
mass replace string in same directly and sub folder
copying / tarring files that have been modified in the last 14 days
verifying php syntax in an entire directory, with xargs
how to find dos format files in a linux file system
bash: recursive program to replace text in a tree of files
replace strings in php files with shell script
replace strings in php files with shell script
replace strings in php files with shell script
substitute string in php from another file
finding multiple strings on multiple lines in file and manipulating output with bash/perl
how can i sum up the number of lines for all source code ?
how to count all the lines of code in a directory recursively?
how to grep for "/local" in all perl files in current directory
how to extract specific parts of the path and filename 
any way to show the commands generated by a command containing 'find', 'xargs'?
any way to show the commands generated by a command containing 'find', 'xargs'?
searching in the source code
how do i write a bash alias/function to grep all files in all subdirectories for a string?
svn: recurisvely add files?
removing trailing whitespace for all files in ediff-trees session
global, recursive rename with sed fails
sed: search and replace string that conforms to a specific regular expression
ever try to delete files with unix shell find? use the -delete option
how do i remove all .pyc files from a project?
how recursively call a command on linux shell
piping empty find result to du through xargs results in unexpected behavior
is it possible to craft a glob that matches files in the current directory and all subdirectoies?
how do i change file permission to a certain file pattern to sub folders of my current directory?
import multiple .sql dump files into mysql database from shell
delete all .svn folders in paths with embedded blanks
recursively change file extensions 
recursively change file extensions 
extract tarball into the same directory
extract tarball into the same directory
bash find command refuses to find more than one file with wildcard
bash find command refuses to find more than one file with wildcard
shell script to list all subdirectories recursively within a folder that contains files with an specific extension
bash script, run echo command with find, set a variable and use that variable
handling spaces in filenames 
bash "map" equivalent: run command on each file
adding text to a bunch of files
shell script to list all subdirectories recursively within a folder that contains files with an specific extension
file command + search directories and sub-directories
looping through sub folders not working unix
bash: any command to replace strings in text files?
finding all kinds of extensions referenced in a html file
applying awk on set of files with same extension
applying unix's head on awk through find command
does "grep" have maximum of files it can handle?
applying awk on set of files with same extension
does "grep" have maximum of files it can handle?
regarding grep in solaris
how to apply the svn 'eol-style' property recursively only on text files?
xargs: variable substitution after redirection
moving files to directories with similar names, in a script
consistency check across files
awk counting occurences strange behaviour
find and delete .txt files 
why doesn't the shell command find . -name "*.txt" | rm remove all .txt files in the current directory?
bash: any command to replace strings in text files?
script to create individual zip files for each .txt file it finds and move them after
calculate size of files 
solaris unix, c-shell, redirecting xargs executed command output
how to rename files in current directory and its subdirectories using bash script?
terminal find command: manipulate output string
terminal find command: manipulate output string
cp: copy all files with a certain extension from all subdirectories
move all files of a given type from a directory to another directory, but keep directory hierarchy (see explanation)
remove all of a file type from a directory and it's children
sutble difference in using xargs and xargs -i
bash script to transverse a directory
force sort command to ignore folder names
force sort command to ignore folder names
passing  arguments from xargs
find all zips, and unzip in place - unix
find all zips, and unzip in place - unix
bulk editing files through ?
invalid predicate zcat
batch resize and rename image files in subdirectories
for loop and files with spaces
what's the fastest way to count files?
use find to count files by date
replacing file names that contain ( and )
replacing file names that contain ( and )
using perl-based rename command with find 
easiest way to search for a directory or a file ?
find files in given subdirectories from unix 
searching for files for which we know part of the word, but too many files for wildcard in the korn shell
searching for files for which we know part of the word, but too many files for wildcard in the korn shell
linux find and grep command together
convert all image links in a website directory (on mac)
in-line text replacement using sed, shell, or some other means
calculate the size of a set of files
in-line text replacement using sed, shell, or some other means
in-line text replacement using sed, shell, or some other means
why is zsh globbing not working with find command?
why is zsh globbing not working with find command?
why is zsh globbing not working with find command?
need to find files modified between 15 and 5 minutes ago
write a shell script that find-greps and outputs filename and content in 1 line
write a shell script that find-greps and outputs filename and content in 1 line
write a shell script that find-greps and outputs filename and content in 1 line
write a shell script that find-greps and outputs filename and content in 1 line
list all files in a directory with a certain extension
use result of find command as file-name for stdout
bash copying files with variables
why isn't this variable in a find iteration changing its value
why isn't this variable in a find iteration changing its value
newbie: linux command
find command cygwin problems
"find: paths must precede expression:" how do i specify a recursive search that also finds files in the current directory?
viewing file's content for each file-name apearing in a list
unzip fails when specifying keyword
how to list all the elements found in a long listing format?
back date  on solaris 5.10
replace a string in all files - unix
how can i remove .ds_store files from a git repository?
bash script to recursively step through folders and delete files
untracked files , untracked folders inventory
how to use '-prune' option of 'find' in sh?
why is my command failing?
how to use '-prune' option of 'find' in sh?
how to use '-prune' option of 'find' in sh?
how to remove all .svn directories from my application directories
how to remove all .svn directories from my application directories
what is the shell command to get directory name using filename?
how can i change file content with find and awk?
find and replace filename recursively in a directory
find and remove only if the file is present
grep: return a user message when no hits
get last line from grep search on multiple files
strange behavior of -exec in find command
strange behavior of -exec in find command
rename multiple files named the same thing throughout a project
compile c program in multiple folders
how to print a specific line of all files in a directory?
bash script only starts new jobs when old batch is finished
bash script only starts new jobs when old batch is finished
unix shell script that prints first line of any readme files in directory or subdirectories
how to get sorted list of files by modified date that match a certain filename and print out part of text ?
finding specific file in command-line
ambiguous redirection
xargs doesn't listen to stdin
untracked files , untracked folders inventory
output of find to diff as argument
concatenate a string to the end of every output line /csh
-bash: /users/username/library/enthought/canopy_64bit/user/bin/activate: permission denied
get total size of folders with find & du
rename multiple directories matching pattern
"find: paths must precede expression:" how do i specify a recursive search that also finds files in the current directory?
script to edit many text files
find  combined with a search to return a particular line
bash find command refuses to find more than one file with wildcard
how can i get a cleaner file information with print command?
how to delete many number of 0 byte files ?
'find' using regex with variables
renaming with find
how do i include a pipe | in my linux find -exec command?
xargs with multiple commands
xargs with multiple commands
xargs with multiple commands
xargs with multiple commands
xargs with multiple commands
linux combine sort files by date created and given file name
how to remove a file with specific filename  from all the folders inside current directory?
batch xslt transformation, find | xarg xsltproc
batch xslt transformation, find | xarg xsltproc
open all files named generator.yml in all subdirectories of current directory in gedit
open all files named generator.yml in all subdirectories of current directory in gedit
remove string/script from all files (recursive)
how to delete html meta tag using sed?
use sed to replace text containing quotes and single quotes
use sed to replace text containing quotes and single quotes
use sed to replace text containing quotes and single quotes
why is zsh globbing not working with find command?
how do i pass the output of a bash command as parameters to another?
how to hide the verbose of "find" command in ubuntu?
find and replace filename recursively in a directory with various names
find and replace filename recursively in a directory with various names
find all files with a filename beginning with a specified string which may match thousands of files
clearcase multi-file rename
find all files matching a given pattern and excluding a given pattern?
find files with certain prefix and replace prefix?
linux how to print all the files with the same prefix after searching for them?
change text in argument for xargs (or gnu parallel)
why does my shell script not find anything (find . -name script.sh | grep watermelon)
find file names that return success on -exec command
understanding linux arguments and piping
function of {} \;
bash, find, exec and echo :-)
shell scripting: using bash with xargs
linux find command unnecessary data
finding files in a specific date and then search for a phone number
finding files in a specific date and then search for a phone number
ssh find modified file from certain day
unix find for finding file names not ending in specific extensions?
unix find for finding file names not ending in specific extensions?
unix find for finding file names not ending in specific extensions?
line counting - how to exclude a folder?
line counting - how to exclude a folder?
why is find finding .git directories?
how do i do a recursive find & replace within an svn checkout?
how do i do a recursive find & replace within an svn checkout?
osx find specific path/combination and delete
find file names containing a choice of strings
finding all files -- no such device error is output when piping
why is find finding .git directories?
how to modify bash command to change permissions
exclude directory from find . command
how to correctly use prune? -type d and -type f have a different effect on prune?
chmod: how to recursively add execute permissions only to files which already have execute permission
how can i let my shell script with 1 argument accept default unix commands in the 
find and replace texts in multiple files
find and replace texts in multiple files
find and replace texts in multiple files
bash: find with -depth and -prune to feed cpio
bash script: find files with data yy/mm/day - variable filename
solaris find command's print options
find and delete files with non-ascii names
find and delete files with non-ascii names
find and delete files with non-ascii names
find -exec cmd {} + vs | xargs
xargs grep ignore files that dont meet query
how to change names of all directories / files containing a specific string on linux
why "find . -print0 | xargs -r0 du -chx" and "du -chx" different results?
bash script to find files based on filename and do search replace on them
find with regex parametr from variable
using regular expression to search for a specific pattern 
how to find files containing newlines in their names
grepping for certain extensions with an arbitrary depth
match a variable length of number with shell script
bash: recursively find all files that match a certain pattern
bash: how to use patterns properly with find
get detailed data with filtered find result
find command cygwin problems
find and remove only if the file is present
how can i get find to match a pattern a specific number of times?
find command cygwin problems
search string: find and grep
search string: find and grep
how to recursively delete multiple files with different extensions?
find filename regular expression
character classes for find command using emacs regex style
'find' using regex with variables
find long filenames using gnu find -regex
using variables with commands 
selectively gzip large files in a directory
selectively gzip large files in a directory
bash/ delete files by find expcept 3 files
check file size  and display file and path above a threshold
bash: sort parameter by size
locate hidden compressed files and bigger than size
bash: moving a group of files of a certain size with grep, awk and xargs
deleting the files thru shell
bash script to transverse a directory
getting folder hierarchy with bash or php
getting folder hierarchy with bash or php
what is the meaning of ${arg##/*/} and {} \; ing
how do i make a symlink to every directory in the current directory that has the same name but has underscores replaced by dashes?
batch move files into subfolders (recursively)
excluding .svn .git files from find+xargs+grep pipe
grep a keyword in all .h and .c files under current directory but exclude two directories
grep a keyword in all .h and .c files under current directory but exclude two directories
grep a keyword in all .h and .c files under current directory but exclude two directories
grep a keyword in all .h and .c files under current directory but exclude two directories
exclude directory from find . command
how do i filter dotfiles out recursively using find ?
using find results when directories have spaces in their names
run git pull over all subdirectories
run git pull over all subdirectories
search server for empty folders
search server for empty folders
search server for empty folders
find command find directories that were created after a certain date under linux/cygwin
execute imagemagick convert in subfolders with bash script
chmod recursively
ways to set x bits on only dirs besides using find
copy one file into every subdirectory
shell script fun! how to perform an action on each subdirectory from a given path?
recursively read folders and executes command on each of them
bash command to recursively list files but sorting by classification
what is the meaning of ${arg##/*/} and {} \; ing
folders tree with rights
how to create a file in multiple directories ?
use gnu find to show only the leaf directories
can a shell loop unzip all the files in a directory?
recursively find the number of files in a directory
recursively find the number of files in a directory
shell if statement based on cammand output/completion
how to combine find with custom tests?
creating empty file in all subfolders
how to create a file in multiple directories ?
how to create a file in multiple directories ?
how to create a file in multiple directories ?
renaming directories using find and sed replacements
renaming directories using find and sed replacements
recursively rename directories 
ignore files and consider only sub-folders
how do i count the number of directories in a path using bash?
use xargs to mv the "find" directory into another directory
use xargs to mv the "find" directory into another directory
print content of a file with same extension in multiple folders based on date and time
print content of a file with same extension in multiple folders based on date and time
how to use '-prune' option of 'find' in sh?
list all files modified in last 5 minutes excluding .svn directories
how to modify bash command to change permissions
how to modify bash command to change permissions
bash: replace substring with empty string
"find" files under current directory but skipping some specific sub-directories
list all directories recursively in a tree format
ways to set x bits on only dirs besides using find
what is the meaning of ${arg##/*/} and {} \; ing
list all directories not containing a subdirectoriy
bash: list all the directories for which only contains two subfolders: folder1 and folder2?
bash: list all the directories for which only contains two subfolders: folder1 and folder2?
how do i filter dotfiles out recursively using find ?
convert images to pdfs in subdirectories
set group of directory to name of directory
set group of directory to name of directory
list all leaf subdirectories 
how to recursively chmod directories with space characters in their names
bash script to transverse a directory
unable to filter rows which contain "is a directory" by sed/awk
find all files in a directory that are not directories themselves
how to find the latest executable file in a directory
find all files except those which is under version control systems (git or svn)
how do i exclude a ./. directory from a shell script search?
need a shell script that deletes all files except *.pdf
how to add .txt to all files in a directory using terminal
how to gzip all files in all sub-directories 
find and grep command this but not that
how to tail all files except one
how to run a command recursively on all files except for those under .svn directories
osx bash recursively find files sorted by size except in folder
find directory pattern
how to use find to append a string to every file in a directory
how to get a list of to-be-added files that don't have svn:mime-type property set?
how does the and-operator work in the find-command?
portable way to list all files in a directory without parsing ls or find
bash - find and remove all html files but a selected ones
convert dos2unix line endings for all files in a directory
count lines in files of type *.cpp and *.h only
count lines in files of type *.cpp and *.h only
replace string with string2 only on line starting with '//fixme'
replace text in multiple file extentions
compute the medium number of lines from files in a shell script
unix find replace special characters in multiple files
how does the and-operator work in the find-command?
use "find" to list all c/h/cc files but exclude symlinks
compute the medium number of lines from files in a shell script
using cp  to use piped in information about files like modification date
using cp  to use piped in information about files like modification date
how to find empty files and edit the header of them. by find and echo
how to generate random number with find and sed?
how can i write a script (to automate this process) that find spaces and special character in file name. i have large data of filename in svn
using " echo append  rightanglebrc  rightanglebrc  file" recursively
using ed to manipulate files matched by find
bash script which recursively makes all text in files lowercase
grep only text files
how to add .txt to all files in a directory using terminal
bash script which recursively makes all text in files lowercase
use wc on all subdirectories to count the sum of lines
how do i concatenate files in a subdirectory with unix find execute and cat into a single file?
filesystem walking iterator from the terminal
shell - using an environment variable with ccrypt
how can i remove sgid bit only to files (excludig folders)?
how do i script hunpos through text files?
copy only files, not folder structure from a directory 
shell script fun! how to perform an action on each subdirectory from a given path?
how to use find - exec and tr to process a large number of files
recursively read folders and executes command on each of them
'exec' parameter with 'echo' and 'awk' filter
shell script to traverse files recursively
i need way to find all files containing odd ^m invisible characters
find . -type -exec fgrep problems
error while searching for a string using xargs
how do i select only shell scripts from a collection of files
how can i grep a keyword which contain underscore?
bash - how to find and remove all files that contain a given string?
use grep to search for a string in files, include subfolders
bash: complex test in find command
how to run a java program on every file in a directory ?
recursive print all documents inside a directory
how sort find result by file sizes
list all files (with full paths) in a directory (and subdirectories), order by access time
unix : list of files
how do i write a bash script to replace words in files and then rename files?
create list of all files in every subdirectories 
recursively scan directories 
recursively add file extension to all files
how to add .xml extension to all files in a folder /linux
unable to replace the word in a given folder's contents by sed/python/perl
maintain directory structure with find and scp
unix command to replace all instances of a string in every file in a folder
multiple replacements with one sed command
newline in sed pattern for a c/c++ function
sed/awk to search and replace/insert text in files
batch lowercase of text files content
rename data using grep?
how to use find - exec and tr to process a large number of files
linux find and replace
shell script: how to find and replace the sentence (not a word) recursively inside a folder
how to use the name of the file with sed in a find expression
sed beginner: changing all occurrences in a folder
elegant way to search for utf-8 files with bom?
sed to exclude directories
how to use sed command to search and replace recursively in subdirectories?
how to use the name of the file with sed in a find expression
recursively find all files under directory a, write "abc" to these files. only to files
recursively find all files under directory a, write "abc" to these files. only to files
sed/awk to search and replace/insert text in files
conditional 
add md5sum in the ls bash output
using ed to manipulate files matched by find
bash: complex test in find command
how to use find - exec and tr to process a large number of files
searching by hash sha1  script
get average words per file
how to find the latest executable file in a directory
unix find: search for executable files
bulk rename files after sed -i
using "for i in" for mv recursively
delete files by date and the date is associated in filename using shell command
odd sed error message
odd sed error message
navigating through folders 
navigating through folders 
remove oldest file in repository
sending the command(s) spawned by xargs to background
surrounding results of a find command with quotes
delete file - specific date
navigating through folders 
how to rename all files in a folder removing everything after space character ?
shell unix : grep wild card
shell unix : grep wild card
how exactly does this sed command work?
bash shell: how to rename files
unix find and replace text in dir and subdirs
restore multiple backup files created with find followed by sed
restore multiple backup files created with find followed by sed
check the occurrence of the first character in multiple files using sed,awk or grep
changing data types of a software module
easiest way to check for include
how can i compile all files in all subdirectories using find?
how can i compile all files in all subdirectories using find?
insert line into multi specified files
insert line into multi specified files
embarrassingly parallel workflow creates too many output files
xargs - multiple commands and rm at the end
generating a base64 encoded sha512 digest for a file (or set of files)
how to access all files in all sub directories using shell script?
count number of lines of .gz files recursviely on directory?
how do i js-beautify recursively?
replace a statement with another one with shell script
replace all files of a certain type in all directories and subdirectories?
how to use sed command to change java package declaration in batch way
generic javadoc command that always generates all javadocs in a given tree?
how to use find on dirs with white spaces?
loop over directories, process files & rename new files
: "find" command is ignoring "-type f" option
what is flow control ?
bash: -exec in find command and &
explain how many processes created?
search for a pattern in files with outputing the result
convert charset from a entire project to utf-8
excluding a directory from find and sed rename
change encoding multiple file with iconv 
sed (linux) issue with recursive
shell script for listing all images in current and subfolder and copy them into one folder?
imagemagick with find  script : output in current folder
find: missing argument to -exec
how to print file names in find despite processing the result and grep
how can i split subdirs into smaller chunks for /bin/cat
how can i split subdirs into smaller chunks for /bin/cat
trailing whitespace elimination script for multiple files
replacing a part of file path in exec
add contents of 1 file to the top of another file
making python scripts work with xargs
how can i split subdirs into smaller chunks for /bin/cat
replacing a part of file path in exec
list all xml files within a directory and subdirectory
convert xml files to trectext format
convert xml files to trectext format
parse thousands of xml files with awk
use find command but exclude files in two directories
linux cmd line, how do i move all found files to upper directory
how to loop through files in a directory having a certain word in filename using bash script?
how to loop through files in a directory having a certain word in filename using bash script?
searching for a file with letter "o" and number 6
how to find all files containing a string?
embarrassingly parallel workflow creates too many output files
run an executable program file in multiple subdirectories using shell
run an executable program file in multiple subdirectories using shell
run an executable program file in multiple subdirectories using shell
bash check whether my asterisk expansion has any matches
learning bash: append a line to list of files
running the same sed transformation on a large number of files
how to print this using awk?
sorting through numbered files for program execution
suppress output to stdout when piping echo
suppress output to stdout when piping echo
how to use 'find' to search for files created on a specific date?
how to use 'find' to search for files created on a specific date?
how to use 'find' to search for files created on a specific date?
how to view list of backup files on a particular date
batch renaming files with a modification time restriction
use find command to find files for certain day
sed/awk to search and replace/insert text in files
join all files in a directory, with a separator
how to correctly use prune? -type d and -type f have a different effect on prune?
unix find: search for executable files
how to change encoding in many files?
can find take a file as argument from stdin?
find command for the newest 500 files in a directory tree and also be posix compliant
how to process files concurrently with bash?
recursively copy/backup all .php files to .php.bak files and keep them in their current paths
use wc on all subdirectories to count the sum of lines
best way to do a find/replace in several files?
how do i concatenate files in a subdirectory with unix find execute and cat into a single file?
how to pass hundreds of files from multiple subdirectories to cat?
how do i script hunpos through text files?
bash: revert nonexecutable files that have mistakenly been changed
unable to replace the word in a given folder's contents by sed/python/perl
sed search replace pattern
match a line in multiple files and modify
bash environment variable that is equivalent to -x?
how to substitute "xxx" | {"foo", "bar"} to "yyy" | {"foo"} in all files recursively in a directory?
how to recursively find the latest modified file in a directory?
how to find the latest executable file in a directory
bash / command not found
find all files, then grep all files for those names
maintain directory structure with find and scp
add thousands of numbers stored in second 'column' in text files?
add thousands of numbers stored in second 'column' in text files?
add thousands of numbers stored in second 'column' in text files?
how do i find the largest 10 files in a given directory?
shell code to print file names and their sizes
how to exclude few folder levels in the find command results - unix
find file without spaces in file name
linux  regex
unix egrep command with regular expression
need a shell script that identifies all of the files recursively under a directory that are more than 10mb
deleting empty (zero-byte) files
deleting all the file of certain size
renaming a series of files
 , moving a file with xargs after finding and zipping it?
get folder name and rename file name tr linux bash
i want to find all the file names present in svn that contain spaces and special characters
how can i make this script more concise?
how do i combine my find and grep command to delete the files?
using bash, how do i find all files containing a specific string and replace them with an existing file?
shell programming file search and append
identifying top recurring words from a list of e-mails based on a dictionary of interesting words
fastest possible grep
learning bash: append a line to list of files
copy file permissions, but not files
ssh - recursive find and replace
add filename to beginning of file using find and sed
recursively scan directories 
add filename to beginning of file using find and sed
how do i concatenate files in a subdirectory with unix find execute and cat into a single file?
check first n lines of bash file for string
how to run a java program on every file in a directory ?
unable to create the md5sum file i need to create. manually doing it would be far too labour-intensive
unix find replace special characters in multiple files
how to replace a string pattern with another string pattern inside all files in directories and subdirectories
search and replace script exclusively
monster perl regex
how do i search for anything between these tags
how to find all symbolic link in pwd which refer to files outside of pwd? unix
find files having multiple links 
delete all broken symbolic links with a line?
find files having multiple links 
get column data from each line of output from ls -l
summarize total size of files under ownership of a specific user
how to omit base name in find output?
linux find on multiple patterns
how can i exclude all "permission denied" messages from "find"?
easy parallelisation
xargs with multiple commands
moving files to a directory
how to find duplicate files with same name but in different case that exist in same directory ?
get argument from pipe
bash: print each input string in a new line
linux  regex
unix find: list of files from stdin
counting files contained in a directory
from a bunch of files, get filenames which don't have a given word
is there a grep equivalent for find's -print0 and xargs's -0 switches?
what's the meaning of '{}' in a find command?
maximum limit for 'find / -name 'file' -o -iname 'file2' -o -iname 'file3'..." etc
bash: use a pattern to get all files at once
echo text on multiple file using find
scp locate's output by xargs
echo text on multiple file using find
how can i execute a list of binaries from a pipe with desired parameters?
using find results when directories have spaces in their names
: piping find results to rm
bash script tar by filetype is not gzipping the specified filetypes on recursive command
how to filter a redirection within -exec into a find command?
bash - padding find results
sorting a "find" result by field n from the *end* of each filen
is there a way to make linux cli io redirection persistent?
is there a way to make linux cli io redirection persistent?
command to print out large files, sorted, with sizes in human readable format
how to get the length of a variable ?
combine different regex together in xargs command
have find print just the filenames, not full paths
: piping find results to rm
find files (print in list file) tar this list, check archive and delete sources
have find print just the filenames, not full paths
have find print just the filenames, not full paths
rename files with dynamic name 
execute command from another directory without really moving
how do you handle the "too many files" problem when working ?
linux - shell script finding and listing all files with rights to write in directory tree
find -name "*.xyz" -o -name "*.abc" -exec to execute on all found files, not just the last suffix specified
bash- unzip compressed files in multiple directories at once
list all files that do not match selector (using ls)
edit certain files in multiple directories using a shell script
how to move multiple files with whitespace on linux
passing shell script variables to find
need to recursively remove license preamble
find all .docx files, add suffix with bash
how to use a bash function defined in your .bashrc with find -exec
how do i insert a new line before concatenating?
don't print in log
solution to error 'find: missing argument to -exec' with find -exec cp {} target_dir +
copying html files to create erb versions with bash script
grep return "too many argument specified on command" any work around
preserve directory tree while copying files with cp
, how to batch show the text of certain line in files?
how do i sort file paths based on multiple embedded numbers?
getting last element of a path (different from #10124314 as basename falls over)
list all directories recursively in a tree-like using awk
list all directories recursively in a tree format
unix shell: list all files in directory excluding directory names
find and replace recursively
find and replace with sed in directory and sub directories
sed mass replace css styles via terminal
using grep to find dynamic text
bash, remove files with letters in the filename
using a variable in find
sed on big multiple files fails (37kb each)
special characters to mass replace string using sed command
how to check version by using xargs command ?
how to check version by using xargs command ?
bash "ps" parallel processes and check when they're done
how can i list all unique file names without their extensions ?
remove blank first line script
linux - shell script finding and listing all files with rights to write in directory tree
linux - shell script finding and listing all files with rights to write in directory tree
execute a subprocess in a gnu parallel command
execute a subprocess in a gnu parallel command
escape single and double quote using sed. geed, find, xargs
search through a range of directories bash script
sed over multiple files in multiple directories
using find to delete all files (without sub dir)
moving all directories which have a specified number of files, to another directory
moving files recurisively on linux
how to search for file names that contain a number at a specific location 
bash script that deletes files older than n days but exludes files in certain folder
bash: loop through a directory, find files and print matching lines after concatenation with a word
how to give o/p of one command to the argument of another command ?
unix command to search and replace text recursively
using variables in search and replace 
delete files older than 10 days using shell script 
issue with the tar file to excude some files and rar only required files in the folder with same structure
search for files except in a given directory
search for files except in a given directory
ruby one-line failing because of directory
what is the correct way  to use for i in $(command)?
how do i index owner/group by path and apply them later?
grep something with xargs and find
grep something with xargs and find
grep something with xargs and find
find location of desktop shortcut which invoked bash script
using find grep and sed together issue
sed not working as expected, but only for directory depth greater than 1
php script just filled up harddrive with junk how do i find it?
programatically performing the same operation in multiple same-level subfolders
shell script to count the number of files coming in a directory
shell script to search for a file and then echo contents of file
how to use 'find' to return parent directory
can't seem to access php.ini
cannot save the results of find command in a file - file is empty
cannot save the results of find command in a file - file is empty
result of find in a variable with bash
how to search a directory?
finding the full path of a directory if it exists and store in a variable using bash script
finding the full path of a directory if it exists and store in a variable using bash script
list of files to check if present
php script just filled up harddrive with junk how do i find it?
ftp bunch of files from multiple directories into one directory
how to list the files inside directory and sub directories?
why cygwin cron cannot find a file when cygwin ls can?
is there a way to know where init scripts  are stored?
find all files matching 'name' on linux system, and search with them for 'text'
how can i find and count number of files matching a given string?
sort any random list of files by modification date
extended posix utilities using command find on mac os x?
php script just filled up harddrive with junk how do i find it?
how can i recursively print a list of files with filenames shorter than 25 characters using a one-liner?
print file names which is in directory and have more than 54 words
list of files to check if present
automatically recreate a lot of different links to renamed directories or files
finding all sym links that reach into a specific folder
bash script copying certain type of file to another location
find files and add a line
how can i move matching files into another directory?
using find in os x to identify then correct permissions
using find in os x to identify then correct permissions
using find in os x to identify then correct permissions
how do i wrap the results of a command in quotes to pass it to another command?
using bash to rename folders with specific extension
using bash to rename folders with specific extension
shell script for flip canvas vertical
how to remove all the normal png in the xcode project
just got bashed by my sed script- why?
find files created over a certain number of seconds ago then copy it
error = find: -exec: no terminating ";" or "+"
how to get files listed within specific time range
issue facing with find command 
linux - ubuntu: get the global size of all pdf's inside a directory
search directory and sub-directories for pattern in a file
extracting filename & modification time from ls output
extracting filename & modification time from ls output
viewing all directories that are world readable
how to find the executable files in the current directory and find out their extensions?
executing grep on multiple find results
grep passwords from all web.config files using cygwin
how useful/difficult would it be for me to learn linux shell scripting? alternative recommendations?
how can i sort file names by version numbers?
quick question about a directory tarring script
recursively delete files in directory
how to bulk open all files with specific name?
centos - command to find and replace a file name pattern if it exists
how to only find files in a given directory, and ignore subdirectories using bash
how to only find files in a given directory, and ignore subdirectories using bash
eject all disks and dmg's with automator script  x
redirect output from -exec in find command to variable
exclude list of files from find
exclude list of files from find
exclude list of files from find
how to add wait time after a statement before execution of next statement 
osx: how to write the full path of all directory contents of a folder containing  rightanglebrc 50k files&folders to a txt
bash delete no more than x files
find all files from today recursively and copy them
shell: find files in a list
listing files and directories writable by the group 
listing files and directories writable by the group 
how to only get file name  `find`?
can find search multiple variations of order for specified input vars
can find search multiple variations of order for specified input vars
how do i grab the filename of the file containing a certain string when there are hundreds of files?
use current filename ("{}") multiple times in "find -exec"?
bash loop through directory and rename every file
"find -ls" with proper time-style
"find -ls" with proper time-style
bash shell scripting - find duplicate named files on different directories
bash shell scripting - find duplicate named files on different directories
scripts: find the files have been changed in last 24 hours
formatting a shell command output
need help  script
need help  script
can't seem to access php.ini
(bash)how to remove default 'newline' operator in command
(bash)how to remove default 'newline' operator in command
watch a file for change
bash: count occurrences of a char in all files of folder
suppress syntax error or warning _completion every time new terminal is opened?
recursively add file contents to file 
stat with find not excluding files
stat with find not excluding files
stat with find not excluding files
stat with find not excluding files
stat with find not excluding files
command to delete all files older than a given time and log what it does
command to delete all files older than a given time and log what it does
fastest way to find text in folder
replacing a string containing special characters with sed
delete a symbolic link when the original folder is deleted
how to use  rightanglebrc  in an xargs command?
unix shell file copy flattening folder structure
how to ignore directories and certain patterns when supplying command-line arguments
find option available to omit leading './' in result
find option available to omit leading './' in result
list files with absolute path recursive 
run git gc on multiple repositories
shell find and replace domain in all files and its folder, sub folder
replace string with this command
find and replace php code in files
open and save changes with bash
finding text within files with filenames
finding text within files with filenames
bash copy with white spaces problems
how can i non-recursively migrate directories with perl or shell?
bash script to backup server upload folders
bash script to backup server upload folders
ignore duplicate filenames in 'find' command
error /usr/local/bin/perl: argument list too long
how to combine command substitution and regex?
how to combine command substitution and regex?
shell command to find files in a directory pattern
linux: redirecting output of a command to "find"
move files of specific size in ubuntu using terminal
cron tar with file filtering
using ls for a specific path & file type without returing full file path?
how to pipe output from find to pdf viewer
how to pipe output from find to pdf viewer
probably obvious mistake in my bash script
ger proper whitespaces  script
cp dir recursivly excluding 2 subdirs
python subprocess call is not working
bash script to find, process and rename files?
bash script to find, process and rename files?
find command to find files and concatenate them
exclude a sub-directory using find
specify more than one argument to grep -v
find, copy, rename within the same directory
bash script for outputting directory details to a file
what should a longtime windows user know when starting to use linux?
how can i export a recursive directory & file listing to a text file  bash shell with an ssh command?
sed replacement not working when using variables
append string to output 
append string to output 
why won't rm remove files passed in from find or sed?
bash script for copying files between directories
finding all php files within a certain directory containing a string
finding all php files within a certain directory containing a string
what is wrong with my find command usage?
listing of files in a directory
list the file and its base directory
shell script rename multi files and remove single quote
how do i traverse through every file in a folder?
remove old backup files
finding files and moving their folders
how to use regex in file find
get a list of files and directories with full path 
get a list of files and directories with full path 
bizarre bash scoping rule eludes me
bizarre bash scoping rule eludes me
for files in directory, only echo filename (no path)
for files in directory, ignoring folders
bash script runs from shell but not from cron job
bash script runs from shell but not from cron job
find file and send it to ftp
bash '.' vs proper dir string
how to get the full path of a particular directory?
bash: how to set the date and time for all entries in the directory /home/virt/
is there any way to append the result of a command after the end of other?
search for files not accessed for x days
find oldest accessed files
cant use commands `date` or `find` when executing a script via ssh
cant use commands `date` or `find` when executing a script via ssh
how to use sed to replace text in subfolders in ubuntu 
need bash script to find (if exists) a tar file, younger than 7 days old
bash scripting..copying files without overwriting
linux if script exists in mnt execute script
script to move folder based on modified date
script to move folder based on modified date
script to move folder based on modified date
script to move folder based on modified date
bash: parallelize md5sum checksum on many files
is there any way to append the result of a command after the end of other?
bash: revert nonexecutable files that have mistakenly been changed
bash: revert nonexecutable files that have mistakenly been changed
bash: how can i use find to check for backup file and delete (if exists)?
only get folders using smbclient
auto erase files after x-time without changes
shell script - how would i compare the same files of different dat
trying to remove a file and its parent directories
using find to delete all subdirectories (and their files)
cron: compress log files of the week without re-compressing previous one. oneliner
find /mymusic -type f | grep --regexp , regular expression to pipe only mp3 files?
copy the file created newly 
shell script for centos box
bash - list files in current directory with full path
eliminate unwanted output using awk and sed
replace a given string in folders throughout a directory
find, grep, and execute - all in one?
doing parallel processing ?
best way to find files recursively that have the same name but are actually different using bash?
using grep and sed to find and replace a string
add at the end of the line with sed
find duplicates of a file by name in a directory recursively - linux
how to use find utility with logical operators and post processing
script to find old files & write list, then delete old files
 terminal, how do i show the folder's last modification date, taking its content into consideration?
run ffmpeg from shell script
run ffmpeg from shell script
shell script - find files modified today, create directory, and move them there
batch rename files on a shared ntfs to windows-style file names
multiple files from different directory as input to awk
how to use find command to find all files with extensions from list?
batch rename files on a shared ntfs to windows-style file names
batch rename files on a shared ntfs to windows-style file names
deleting multiple directories(same name) 
bash script to find files in folders
shell script delete folders older than n days
shell script delete folders older than n days
linux: delete every file older than a date with one exceptional file
linux: delete every file older than a date with one exceptional file
keep x files in a directory and remove any older files
how to delete folders that are older than a day? (cron job)
how to delete all files except large list from database?
find command with -regex and -exec, regex help needed
errors when piping a specific find command and creating a zipfile from its output?
how can i recursively replace a string with another in many files using bash?
how can i recursively replace a string with another in many files using bash?
find/replace through all files on the root directory through ssh
make ips anonymous in output of web analytics tool - perl or sed?
is there a way to tell sed to ignore symlinks?
is there a way to tell sed to ignore symlinks?
bash get md5sum of all files in a folder
find "string1" and delete between that and "string2"
how to pipe multiple files to ffmpeg?
solution for echo to replace globally
how can i find files that only has the certain permission for owner using bash
constantly searching for files all day? batch file?
find the domain name and replace it - shell script
bash script, match on dates like?
list files matching pattern when too many  globbing
list only files that are unencrypted
delete all reoccurrences of first line in a file using sed
issue with changing file extensions with bash
issue with changing file extensions with bash
deleting log directories of a particular timestamp 
find file ending with .sh or .bin
, how to cp/rm files by time?
how do i use a pipe in the exec parameter for a find command?
find -type d with no subfolders
find -type d with no subfolders
find -type d with no subfolders
find -type d with no subfolders
move only files recursively from multiple directories into one directory with mv
move only files recursively from multiple directories into one directory with mv
solution for replacing string in all the scripts
bash/shell - paths with spaces messing things up
bash/shell - paths with spaces messing things up
moving multiple files in subdirectories (and/or splitting strings by multichar delimeter)  leftsquarebrc bash rightsquarebrc 
xargs not functioning 
wildcard expansion  script
list paths with find when the filename contains spaces
list paths with find when the filename contains spaces
linux - how can i copy files of the same extension located in several subdirectories into a single directly?
bash script - find file by user input
batch removing file extensions osx
remove files  and not the directory of the same name
list all files not starting with a number
list all files not starting with a number
how can i search for a specific string after an ls command
count lines found with find command
linux shell script - find all files and run a command on each one of them
linux can't delete files
backing up specific files and renaming them via bash
dealing filenames with shell regex
dealing filenames with shell regex
delete specific lines using sed in multiple files
xargs to pipe the output of ls command
unix `find` and specifying base directory
shell script traversing the all subdirectories and modifying the content of files
deleting multiple html lines in multiple files  commandline
unable to find files/folders with permissions 777 by awk/sed/python
removing a line from multiple files using grep & sed
use regex to remove a decimal point
conditional action based on whether any file in a directory has a ctime newer than x
list file names based on a filename pattern and file content - grep?
list file names based on a filename pattern and file content - grep?
list file names based on a filename pattern and file content - grep?
copy every file of entire directory structure into one folder
rsync make flat copy
finding all directories that are world readable
finding all directories that are world readable
how do i get a list of directories  and then expand them as  parameters?
how can i pass a variable/argument into this sed script that i am testing?
recursively delete all files except some especific types
find ignores the first filename that i search for
perl + add warn massage in perl one liner code
how to copy files flattening into one dir using find and xargs (gnu bash)
how to loop through a directory recursively
how to escape commands passed to find with the exec option on linux
add text to each line of find command
bash script to replace spaces in file names
order of files unix find on two directories with or command
find and sort directories
looping through files older than 2 hours 
how to automate dos2unix using shell script?
identifying top recurring words from a list of e-mails based on a dictionary of interesting words
ignore spaces in solaris 'find' output
ignore spaces in solaris 'find' output
ignore spaces in solaris 'find' output
why wont -exec run?
why doesn't **find** find anything?
why doesn't **find** find anything?
why doesn't **find** find anything?
why doesn't **find** find anything?
why doesn't **find** find anything?
renaming id3 tag  script with eyed3
xargs how to put result {} into $(cmd {})?
if statement to delete symbolic link
how can i use find to recursively backup multiple subversion repositories
is there any way to prevent ncurses based programs from running?
deleting oldest files with shell
deleting oldest files with shell
find files with glob pattern
find files with glob pattern
find files with glob pattern
how can i generate a list of directories, while ignoring .war files?
bash script to fetch log files from dev and production fails
argument list too long when concatenating lots of files in a folder
bash scripting..copying files without overwriting
delete old files in a directory
delete old files in a directory
why does find result in an empty new line within backticks?
linux find folder and rename
linux find folder and rename
finding directories with find  using a exclude list
linux command: find & replace using regex not woking as expected
how to use output from find for if-condition?
linux shell script to zip all files
how to execute a custom copy command ?
zgrep multiple gz files in directory
zgrep multiple gz files in directory
how can i replace the all email address found in particular folder 
recursive script delete folders by name all but 2
regular expression - find ocurrences that has one string
find and replace text in multiple files
batch rename file extensions in subdirectories
batch rename file extensions in subdirectories
batch rename file extensions in subdirectories
batch rename file extensions in subdirectories
exclude directories with a certain prefix using find
search for text files in a directory and append a (static) line to each of them
unix - find file in directory x but exclude directory y
replace string with a slash character with sed
chown user:group except nobody
changing names for all files in subdirectroies
get folder with newest date name
remove files base on integer.name
recursively touch files with file
creating symbolic link from select file type in a folder
how can i get the owner of every file in a directory ?
how can i get the owner of every file in a directory ?
how to exclude all subdirectories of a given directory in the search path of the find command 
shell command for counting words in files
bash: nested substitution only assigns last value to variable
recursively go through directories and files  + use wc
recursively go through directories and files  + use wc
using find command to delete multiple extensions older than certaint time
bash find -exec cp not all files are copyed
linux find folders without files but only subfolders
find without recursion
find without recursion
`find -name` pattern that matches multiple patterns
find files in multiple directories from the terminal
shell script to write folder tree structure to file
how to interrupt bash pipeline on error?
how to interrupt bash pipeline on error?
how to interrupt bash pipeline on error?
find using multiple name patterns
removing directories with spaces with bash
removing directories with spaces with bash
using grep -e with variables
shell scripting errors
how can i remove everything except listed files with the find-command?
unix: file names and location to excel sheet
how can i list files with their absolute path ?
find: what's up with basename and dirname?
fetch the ksh name
fetch the ksh name
get a list of files and directories with full path 
sed not working properly with multiple input files
only include files that match a given pattern in a recursive diff
only include files that match a given pattern in a recursive diff
line counting - how to exclude a folder?
looping and adding an extension to all files using bash
remove files by extension from all levels of a directory subtree without destroying the directory structure
how do i selectively create symbolic links to specific files in another directory ?
can sed be made recursive in for windows?
remove part of an .xml file in console
remove part of an .xml file in console
remove part of an .xml file in console
recursive cat all the files into single file
bash script to find and execute more complex command
extract the complete list of file extensions from a directory
how to use find -exec without lots of escaping
finding the latest file from directory with creation date as suffix
use gnu find to show only the leaf directories
delete all files but keep all directories in a bash script?
unix genius - remove "." from a bunch of filenames?
how to search for a string and replace it with other string ?
change file names with find and iconv
change file names with find and iconv
why ls command combined with xargs and cp move only 10 files?
$(find -x) equivalent on linux
$(find -x) equivalent on linux
one liner shell script
$(find -x) equivalent on linux
how to do this under linux/unix?
strip leading dot from filenames bash script
repeated input redirection to c++ executable 
bash script: gzip an entire folder and keep files extensions same
recursively copy user-executable files
moving a directory tree with only some of the files
how to delete content from all files within a given folder preserving the names?
moving large number of files
linux: command to make folders recursively writable without affecting the permission of files inside them
finding and counting duplicate filenames
how to escape -exec on find-command?
comparing (diff) different files with same names in lots of directories and subdirectories
comparing (diff) different files with same names in lots of directories and subdirectories
linux: set permission only to directories
how can i include hidden directories with find?
bash script -exec syntax
rename file  script
bash create many directories if it doesn't exist over ssh
find and delete multiple argument directories
unable to process files of a directory in for loop 
bash - how can i archive and compress files in subdirectories but only with a certain filename
remove underscores from all filenames within a directory
one liner renaming a group of files and directories
grep only last line after find needed files
bash find: list all the files with prefixes from a for loop
bash find: list all the files with prefixes from a for loop
bash: from ./ move all directories' contents to their respective ../
bash find: list all the files with prefixes from a for loop
list files that have the same first 16 characters
something about curl upload all of files in my local directory
passing quoted string arguments to a bash script
copying a directory structure via shell scripts
copying a directory structure via shell scripts
unix find command
bash: how to traverse directory structure and execute commands?
delete a list of file/directory names
delete a list of file/directory names
, how to delete all files in a directory except one or two
linux - rename all folders to upper in a destination
linux - rename all folders to upper in a destination
why does this conditional return "no such file or directory"
find compressed files and output line
find files with padded with zeros after fsarchiver backup
bash: count find result in folder
bash script optimisation
bash - split result of a command on ": " and call a program with the first part
bash loop through all find recursively in sub-directories
find: -printf: unknown option
using sed to delete string
total size of group of files selected with 'find'
batch rename files and folders at once
i need to "cat" a bunch of files in different locations
log file search based on date and time range on multiple log files using awk
unzip .gz files in different folders and combine them into a single file
how to get gnu `find` to not display the initial path?
skip characters in "find" output
find and replace multi line file content in files
how to set permissions of all the folders and all the files in as few steps as possible chmod
, how do i write a script that cats all .js files?
rsync only *.php files
bash/shell-move all files from subdirectories into target directory?
bash copy all files except one
bash copy all files except one
bash copy all files except one
recursively moving all files of a specific type into a target directory 
unix find : how to deal with paths containing spaces
strip path from find for use in pipe
how to use -not in find?
create a tar file in a subdirectory of the directory to be archived
how to find/grep all paths where directory name matches "x" but not "y" on *nix?
how to find/grep all paths where directory name matches "x" but not "y" on *nix?
shell - how to deal with find -regex?
how to delete a line from files in subfolders uisng unix commands?
how to sort the results of find (including nested directories) alphabetically 
how to exclude few folder levels in the find command results - unix
how to exclude few folder levels in the find command results - unix
renaming folders, files and subfolders 
shell script - loop through directories?
getting specific files from server
bash: how to add subdirs to the path
imgopt can't optimize file with whitespace in the name
how to create links to all subfolders containing specified text in their names
using sed to grab filename from full path?
using sed to grab filename from full path?
removing files with a double quote in their name
how to `find` within specific folders without walking present folders in a recursive search?
finding files without numbers in the name
find all audio files in a folder using bash 
finding files without numbers in the name
find string within hidden file on os x
unix replacing backslashes within files recursively
moving files from directory and all subdirectories
ubuntu root cron job not completing
bash deletion script on file age
bash deletion script on file age
bash deletion script on file age
bash: recursively adding subdirectories to the path
bash: recursively adding subdirectories to the path
bash: recursively adding subdirectories to the path
how to delete dated txt files as part of a bash script under linux
meaning of chmod o+rx '{}' \
linux commands - piping commands
bash find, exclude parent?
create a path from lines in a file on the unix 
create a path from lines in a file on the unix 
using find command on in a bash script to find integers
find folders in a directory, without listing the parent directory
bash script: perform certain actions on files of certain extension inside a certain directory?
using the output of a 'grep search' as the input of a 'yum update' (shell script)
what's the difference between piping elements or specifying them as arguments in a perl one-liner?
cannot save the results of find command in a file - file is empty
why "d:\0.0" doesn't substring of "d:\0.0" while using "findstr" command of windows command prompt
why "d:\0.0" doesn't substring of "d:\0.0" while using "findstr" command of windows command prompt
why "d:\0.0" doesn't substring of "d:\0.0" while using "findstr" command of windows command prompt
find 2 values in file with command-line | cmd
find 2 values in file with command-line | cmd
piping findstr's output
piping findstr's output
regular expressions in findstr
find 2 values in file with command-line | cmd
find specific text in files
find specific text in files
windows /shell - while appending file to another file, how to ignore lines that match a regex?
batch - check if variable is not empty and perform action
find 2 values in file with command-line | cmd
find active directory users home folder from login hook script in os x
how do i echo username, full name, and login time from finger into columns? i'm using bash on opensuse13.1
get a list of people who are logged in
removing columns in text file with bash?
how can i export html to file via  with firefox
bash assigning tail value to a variable
how to encode url  script?
detecting program errors  scripts?
remove all words after starting from a specific word
rename directory names recursively
bash script - working with long filename
what is a readable/modern way to parse a bit-based error code?
bash - showing usage/help on no arguments with shflags
how to find rows which has a certain char less than a certain count?
undefined reference.. linker command failed with exit code 1
working with user input in objective-c foundation  utility
bash: how to lock also when perform an outside script
bash flock: exit if can't acquire lock
locking a file (and detecting that lock)  (cygwin) shell scripting
shell script: ensure that script isn't executed if already running
what does 200 rightanglebrc "$somefile" accomplish?
why doesn't bash's flock with timeout exit if it fails to acquire the lock?
locking a file (and detecting that lock)  (cygwin) shell scripting
how to prevent `fmt` shell script from adding double space after end of sentences?
how to define var  functions
how do i format a file in 4 columns?
what is an efficient bash one-liner for adding line every 130 characters to a file without lines?
unix wc -l with line length restriction
awk printing characters between fields
redirect all output to file
redirect all output to file
git bash - how to default to other directory instead of home directory
regex in notepad++ like sed
setting variable linux
setting variable linux
bash and grep: passing of regex parameter
store sql query string into variable bash
get confused about square brackets 
run the same program in many processes
pass stdout as file name for  util?  leftsquarebrc answer: use named pipes rightsquarebrc 
is this batch file injection?
add a new directory  linux
compressing using tar with bash script : line n is a directory
retrieving file name /shell programing
playing around with bash, getting syntax errors
how to capitalize all letters inside quotation marks using sed?
is this batch file injection?
is this batch file injection?
linux: counting spaces and other characters in file
syntax error near unexpected token `&' (using "|&")
syntax error near unexpected token `&' (using "|&")
can't capture and echo pid by $!
is semicolon optional at the end of if expression  script?
bash: process substitution inside a string
passing  arguments from xargs
trap function by passing arguments?
how can you diff two pipelines ?
how can you diff two pipelines ?
combine output of two concurrent programs with bash
find and replace strings using sed
is there a minimally posix.2 compliant shell?
adding to path so that file is available everywhere - bash
is this batch file injection?
is this batch file injection?
providing partial input to a bash command
, how to tail a fifo that is currently being written to, and then tail the fifo again, grepping for different text?
how can i pipe stderr to stdin of the application running inside of bash?
exec a unix command and if not works exec other without showing errors
bash associative array error
kill eval'ed process
, how to tail a fifo that is currently being written to, and then tail the fifo again, grepping for different text?
python using argparse.argumentparser method
understanding a makefile with automatic dependencies: problems with 'sed' part
understanding a makefile with automatic dependencies: problems with 'sed' part
perl int handler and bash stderr redirection
 option parser with space in directory name
pitfalls in renaming files 
unix : cksum comparison betwn files in the folder
what does --exclude do in tar command when use like this "tar cvfz ../xxx --exclude './yyy/**' "?
adding to path so that file is available everywhere - bash
how can i pass quoted parameters from a function to another?
how to replace text using greedy approach in sed?
php exec command is not working with awk command
substituting lines of a text file into bash commands
using echo to pipe a string with c style comments
how to pass  parameter to xsl transformation with fop
how to list files with numbers in their name and retrieve the numbers?
makefile : foreach error
extract payload from tcpflow output
'no such file or directory' error in sh, but the file exists?
using @file in forfiles not working
forfiles command returns different results on windows 7 and windows 2008 server
nested forfiles: path and extension filter
why is `help format-list` not the same as `format-list | help`?
why is `help format-list` not the same as `format-list | help`?
programmatically get the folder where my fortune files are stored
unix awk array not printing values
create a child process by fork() a parent process 
save command output to variable without it printing to standard output
pass variable number of arguments to command
units of measure regex manipulation
how to find the ram size in red hat linux server?
more commands to one output file?
set a bash command return as a variable
running from bash getenv is not defined
hidden command window, startupinfo and global name 'subprocess' not defined
failed to start post-commit hook
awk with two file inputs - output depends on congruence between both input files
how do you even give an (openfst-made) fst input? where does the output go?
how do you even give an (openfst-made) fst input? where does the output go?
how do you even give an (openfst-made) fst input? where does the output go?
how do you even give an (openfst-made) fst input? where does the output go?
how do you even give an (openfst-made) fst input? where does the output go?
what are normal checksum
how to run fswatch to call a program with static arguments?
connect to ftp using .netrc with multiple accounts
windows batch script execution becomes interactive after using ftp
downloading all the files in a directory with curl
connect to ftp using .netrc with multiple accounts
shell syntax error
need to execute ftp commands from batch script
bash about repeat until
django-admin.py is not working properly
read content from file and find full file-name on disk
bash: simplification of code block
why should eval be avoided , and what should i use instead?
1: command not found
 how to modify an external variable from within a function that is piped?
passing parameters to a bash function
assign a fish function to another name
how to close the writers of a named pipe?
how do i find a process and kill it in a single bash script
how do i quit a django development server with a bash script?
does the linux system lock the file when i copy it?
how to write an bash alias to list all name-matching env-vars
using comm to diff two files
how view 1000 line when use command on linux
is there a  option to pipe gcc result to console? or bash?
how to get the terminal dimensions in c++ code?
how to command-line compile with files in a parent directory?
code runs fine in xcode, but errors out on the 
g++ and sed pipeline
g++ and sed pipeline
c++ on unix: redirecting shell output
how do i remove all the text after a certain character on a line, and do the same on each line?
trying to print lines by specific column value in awk
match in awk disregarding white space
awk - using rt when rs is a regexp gives me the rs of the next match not the current
are there any awk syntax checkers?
get all the exception within specific time range with help of awk
how to extract text from columns and feed them to a code on linux (bash)?
find all values from text a in text b and type next to it other column from other file with awk
#awk if else loop not working in ksh
#awk if else loop not working in ksh
awk with function calling error in redirection
parse filezilla log with awk, ip and logins
awk to find overlaps
extracting specific data from a xml file
awk strips percent sign, adds extra character when run from windows batch
awk on windows - print fields - quotes as delimiter
delete all reoccurrences of first line in a file using sed
update last field with value from line count (awk?)
delete all reoccurrences of first line in a file using sed
extract multiple lines on either end of pattern which are enclosed by an identifer
print specific number of lines furthest from the current pattern match and just before matching another pattern
formatted reading using awk
grep/awk stdin limitations?
awk on windows - print fields - quotes as delimiter
monitor (follow) and grep a syslog file
monitor (follow) and grep a syslog file
monitor (follow) and grep a syslog file
delete nodes in xml if they contain certain text using sed
split larger file into smaller files: help regarding 'split'
how to get specific data from block of data based on condition
one liner for editing the second last line of a file, using awk or sed?
one liner for editing the second last line of a file, using awk or sed?
separate single text file into multiple files based on certain pattern
how to set fs to eof?
update last field with value from line count (awk?)
awk general-query.log for insert into
how to use grep via awk?
enumerate substitutions with sed or awk
which unix utility can help me extract specific characters from a line in the file
how to use grep via awk?
awk matching positive and negative numbers
missing field and extra space after using for loop in awk
shell: searching for a pattern in a file and extracting a data block which contains the pattern
deleting lines from a text file with bash
change regex delimiter in awk patterns
csv parse with ifs bash : choose ";" as the separator
how to detect whether a record ends with rs in awk?
the meaning of an awk command
backslash in gawk fields
using awk to format the output
how to use grep via awk?
gawk command in matching data
sed using in logfiles
awk only processes first line of input file? extract attribute values from html elements
string manipulation within file column 
perform arithmetic operations on all "cells" in tab-delimited file
fetch lines from a file based on line numbers specified in another file (preferably using awk)
printing the actual field delimiter value not the regular expression
extract values from specific row, column using bash
is there a way to make awk keep track of changes that it makes
error executing gcc in z shell script
error executing gcc in z shell script
error executing gcc in z shell script
error executing gcc in z shell script
can't use named pipe from c to communicate with shell script
how to get gcc linker command?
indentation   tools
output to a text file the pre-compiler code
on-the-fly output redirection, seeing the file redirection output while the program is still running
giving input to a shell script through 
getting permission denied error at  trying to run a c pthread program
bash one liner to compile, execute and echo return value?
grep command is not search the complete pattern
trying to pass preprocessor directive via   script
how to get gcc linker command?
compiling apple frameworks for simple  programs
compiling a simple objective-c program
specify the type residing in a specific address
minimal typing  calculator - tcsh vs bash
what is the unix command to create a hardlink to a directory in os x?
convert .a file to .dll
 equivalent of `getrusage()`
converting space delimiter to comma delimiter file using unix script
why is cuda flummoxed by variable declaration rc?
how to instruct gcc/clang to output temporary files to a particular directory
how to compile in c99 mode?
how to get gcc linker command?
is there anything special about  arguments prefixed with dashes?
how to compile c program on  using mingw?
how to check if option key is pressed at startup of a mac bash application
gcc won't include libcurl on commandline for os x
how to execute linux nested  tersely?
what is the powershell equivalent to this bash command?
how to log out account in bq command in bigquery
how to log out account in bq command in bigquery
is there a command to change terminal transparency?
how to force a swapped-out zsh process to swap in?
shell wild card to select n files with same naming scheme?
what should the layername be in gdal_rasterize for loop?
can i write a script in the  which iterates though all files in a dir?
how can one run gdb or valgrind on an irb process?
minimal typing  calculator - tcsh vs bash
how can one run gdb or valgrind on an irb process?
bash - split result of a command on ": " and call a program with the first part
bash - split result of a command on ": " and call a program with the first part
quicker way to navigate directories ?
simulating key press using bash
can bundler be used in rsync deployments?
i'm trying to setup showoff.io or localtunnel on a mac, but i'm stuck
trouble setting up rails, sqlite 3 won't install
can bundler be used in rsync deployments?
in ruby, how can i extract a tar archive stream directly to the filesystem?
how to convert directory sass/scss to css via ?
load gems inside scripts run from the shell outside our rails application directory?
load gems inside scripts run from the shell outside our rails application directory?
error message when trying to run the command: bundle install --without production
error message when trying to run the command: bundle install --without production
can bundler be used in rsync deployments?
can bundler be used in rsync deployments?
heroku restart = resource not found?
liquibase diff operation not producing output file
how to monitor progress of ssh file transfer and output to a log file
splitting  args with gnu parallel
piping output from a python script to a remote machine?
using sed to drop strings with repeated and incremental characters?
how do i redirect output to a variable in this shell function?
bash: only last iteration of loop index not being stored as new element of array
linux: make output into one line
daily cup of winscp file download with todays date
how do i prevent this infinite loop in powershell?
why is `help format-list` not the same as `format-list | help`?
printing a sample from a huge file
launching separate visual windows in powershell (start "%%a powershell.exe )
entity framework 5 nuget console commands
entity framework 5 nuget console commands
entity framework 5 nuget console commands
assigning values printed by php cli to shell variables
how to avoid hanging wget 
mutiple returns from a function in a shell script
testing the return value : command not found
bash function is not getting called, unless i echo the return value
bash function is not getting called, unless i echo the return value
how can i assign command output to a variable in gnu make target rule?
bash  and input limit
time command output on an already running process
background process log shows big gaps in message timestamps
deleting inactive 5 days old files
how do i get a user's friendly username on unix?
getting the full name 
script that uses variable username in find command
bash script to get the number of potential users
bash script to get the number of potential users
distribution of different shells
linux server list users who can login
linux server list users who can login
can anyone explain this command fully adb shell sendevent  leftsquarebrc device rightsquarebrc   leftsquarebrc type rightsquarebrc   leftsquarebrc code rightsquarebrc   leftsquarebrc value rightsquarebrc ?
how to get groupname when i have the groupid
how to pass parameters to bash getopts using a custom variable as opposed to ${1}, ${2} etc
bash alias to python script -- is it possible?
how to pipe gcc or gfortran warnings and errors
read an arbitrary string from the console
mix command and variables ing
how to create a layered psd file from ?
git diff during pre-commit hook results in not a git repository
remote nodejs server deployment with forever
why does executing a git command in a git hook stop the rest of the hook script from finishing?
get git repo url using absolute path
using git via  is buggy, but bash works fine?
git with --git-dir= results in 'not a git repository'
git's shortlog command is failing when run during a pre-commit hook
how to check if git is installed from .bashrc
running "git status" against a repository located elsewhere in the system
remote nodejs server deployment with forever
show git diff and git status simultaneously
git log tabular formatting
in git how can i stage a file i have just diffed without manually specifying the file?
git add multiple files from bash array
git add multiple files from bash array
add items to git index efficiently
add items to git index efficiently
bash syntax error near unexpected token `('
how do i pipe a git clone to archive (tar or gzip)
how do i get the effect of gnu tar's --strip-components with git-archive?
zip latest committed changes only
git deployment method leaves me on wrong branch
how to download only one changeset with git?
is there a way to output the result of a "git blame" to a text file?
no code is downloaded after executing a git fetch
use literal (*) in grep pattern with
called git checkout -b branchname on pre-existing branch; was old one overwritten?
get all git branches that matches regex and split it into array
redirect stdout into buffer editor before piping to other commands
delete multiple remote branches in git
delete multiple remote branches in git
how do i assign the value of grep into a variable and concatenate with a string?
setting up bash shortcut for committing to git with the current branch as message
setting up bash shortcut for committing to git with the current branch as message
how do i assign the value of grep into a variable and concatenate with a string?
how to get the name of the current git branch into a variable in a shell script?
git undo all uncommitted changes
setting an alias within an alias
succinct way to create a tracking branch with git
succinct way to create a tracking branch with git
git undo all uncommitted changes
remove local git changes
shell script for automated git svn rebase, push to github
checking a pull request 
shell script for automated git svn rebase, push to github
git (on windows using msysgit) - "compound" command
bash loop through git cherry -v master and get first and last commit id
remove local git changes
getting a list of all unversioned files in a git-controlled folder
getting a list of all unversioned files in a git-controlled folder
git undo all uncommitted changes
shell redirect 'git clean' output
running shell script in rails only outputs the 1 line
checkout branch from github without cloning whole repo, and without git
default values for lists/arrays using  parser library
getting "permission denied" error while cloning a repository using ssh?
shortcut for long command
how do you use the ubuntu  to pull a project that's been uploaded onto git?
bash script to push/pull from private git repository?
git integration
git clone from bash script
git clone from bash script
what's the best practice to create a script which initiate a folder structure
stay in the current directory after bash script
how to deal with output from a background linux task
how to deal with output from a background linux task
install ruby gem globally from github repository
cloning from github when password has ! in it
cloning from github when password has ! in it
how to create a branch from master and link it to local git on windows system
git clone - how do i supress the "you appear to have cloned an empty repository" warning?
remove git username form git bash
post commit hook not running
passing a parameter through pipe 
use of an exclamation mark in a git commit message via ?
using egrep regex to capture part of line
how to pass arguments in double quotes inside bash script
git commit bash script
read multi word text from 
how to print what a bash script is actually running?
send string with whitespaces as git commit message using bash
echoing date automated git commit
, how do i interpolate $(...) in a string?
how do i escape an exclamation mark ?
what is the general syntax of a unix shell command?
how to set current date as git commit message
ignore bash backtick execution without escaping the ` character in git commit
use of apostrophe (single-quote) in a git commit message via ?
read multi word text from 
read multi word text from 
git alias to chain add, commit, pull, push?
programmatically tell difference between git-svn and git repos?
git windows command prompt gets stuck during git commands with (end)
`git` and `less` integration in os x terminal: prevent writing output of `less` to tty
git alias with multiple commands and flags cannot work
git alias with multiple commands and flags cannot work
how to remove committed files no longer in working directory
how to embed bash script directly inside a git alias
sourced git alias fails
automatically using -v option for git remote
alias git stash poop to pop?
git pre-push hook fails to push everything
create shell sub commands by hierarchy
zsh plugins don't work
cygwin: color coding and branch info for git?
specify which vim is called from a command like git
how to stop git hanging on commit in cygw
how to stop git hanging on commit in cygw
creating an alias for a two word command like git log?
git no pager for specific commands
using and checking for optional parameters in a git alias function
force git status to output color on the terminal (inside a script)
strange output of git diff to file in ubuntu
fabric local zsh alias
my  locks up when making a commit with git
define a core.pager in git using bash variables
how can i get 'git status' to always use short format?
how to remove committed files no longer in working directory
how to remove committed files no longer in working directory
how to programmatically determine whether the git checkout is a tag and if so, what is the tag name
how to programmatically determine whether the git checkout is a tag and if so, what is the tag name
aspell not returning misspelled words when using sgml mode with an extra dictionary
strange output of git diff to file in ubuntu
git diffing crashes on windows when submodules exist
git diff - external viewer - get all diff results
zip latest committed changes only
how do i use a git tag to display all the files that have changed in that tag?
how to handle color codes when trying to use grep, sed, etc
diff only changed parts of lines
diff only changed parts of lines
show git diff and git status simultaneously
git diff --staged on moved file?
git diff --staged on moved file?
calling git diff in pre-commit shell script
git diff - ignore reorder
git: unable to redirect/parse the output of 'git fetch --dry-run' command
checking a pull request 
git bash not realizing that file has been removed from repo on push
git alias with bash conditional logic comparing strings - syntax issues
git alias with bash conditional logic comparing strings - syntax issues
git alias with bash conditional logic comparing strings - syntax issues
what is the simplest way to find the current git branch name when in detached head state
zsh alias - rightanglebrc  function?
confusing error from | xargs sed
how do i open the git gui from a command window?
how to redirect output terminal help documents of git (or any other) to a text file, which has bold font words in it?
creating a git alias to append to .gitignore
git: move existing repository from pc to server, clone from server
how to remove committed files no longer in working directory
find the most recently introduced file
find the most recently introduced file
find the most recently introduced file
find the most recently introduced file
going back to the history of my working directory - git, bash
is it possible to move/rename files in git and maintain their history?
bash - grep? sed? to remove lines of text from a variable
remove cr (\r) while reading text file
remove cr (\r) while reading text file
remove cr (\r) while reading text file
when i have git log print out as oneline, how do i reverse it?
how to generate changelog: git log since last hudson build?
how do you compare 2 dates  (date is in git log format)
git filter-branch, variables, and bash
extract characteristics of project
getting specific part of text from file based on in-line date
extract characteristics of project
git contributors of each file
convert git date using gnu date
how to capture a git commit message and run an action
find last commit in git repo that contains a certain string pattern
escaping characters  (for json)
extract characteristics of project
how to use sed to return something from first line which matches and quit early?
how do i iterate over all the lines output by a command in zsh?
how to make quick backup of untracked files which i want to delete by git clean?
git update-index --assume-unchanged on directory
how print last commit info for every file in a git repository
git update-index --assume-unchanged on directory
count number of lines in a git repository
count number of lines in a git repository
how do i get git's latest stable release version number?
how do i get git's latest stable release version number?
merge git branches while maintaining individual branch layout
shell script for automated git svn rebase, push to github
git mv file and create symbolic link at old location (shell command needed)
git: mv command
is there a way to reference other parts of the command being entered , similar to history expansion
is there a way to reference other parts of the command being entered , similar to history expansion
undo git mv (rename)
use git / github to sync my projects between pc / laptop / webinterface
permission denied when piping to a file
git set remote path to git executable files over ssh
git merge branch of another remote
local and remote git repositories issue
why does git-pull fail with signal 13?
why does git-pull fail with signal 13?
why does git-pull fail with signal 13?
why does git-pull fail with signal 13?
need help coloring/replacing arbitrary strings using bash and sed
why do git commits exist on my local clone/directory but not on github?
how to create a branch from master and link it to local git on windows system
why do git commits exist on my local clone/directory but not on github?
shell script for automated git svn rebase, push to github
local and remote git repositories issue
git branch bash variable shortcut
github: push additional commit to pull request
git branch bash variable shortcut
how to synchronize git-svn repositories
github: push additional commit to pull request
how to pass a programmatically generated list of files to `git filter-branch`?
how to pass a programmatically generated list of files to `git filter-branch`?
git: check when the last fetch was run
unable to look up https fatal error when push to git repository
bash: check if a particular git repository has github as remote repo?
relink with a github repository on a new machine
starting a sourcetree git project from scratch
how to add git remote repos name repeatedly in jenkins shell?
heroku remote won't delete
git deployment with post-receive hook
fatal: remote server hung up unexpectedly
unable to change my remote repo
git undo all uncommitted changes
remove local git changes
git undo all uncommitted changes
git branching is not working properly
.gitignore file got cached
can git pre-receive hooks evaulate the incoming commit?
can git pre-receive hooks evaulate the incoming commit?
git filter-branch, variables, and bash
command prompt gives different output than git bash
how to find latest non-merge commit message in git?
purpose of read rev in this bash oneliner
programmatically tell difference between git-svn and git repos?
run bash script on every git commit
to get git-prompt work in zsh without a bug in a function
test if current repo is under git 
test if current repo is under git 
what is the most robust way to get the name of the reference last pointed to by head?
fastest way to get git status 
get sha1 of latest remote commit
teamcity pipe  output to a file
git remove files for commit but keep them on disk
deleting a folder from github
bash syntax error near unexpected token `('
extract characteristics of project
extract characteristics of project
bash script to extract filenames from git whatchanged
why does my string not split nicely into an array?
git: show content of file as it will look like after committing
report from git regarding branches in a release
excluding the arrow pattern "- rightanglebrc " using grep
excluding the arrow pattern "- rightanglebrc " using grep
git branching is not working properly
why is my new .gitignore automatically ignored?
show git diff and git status simultaneously
remove deleted files from git: argument list too long
indenting multi-line output in a shell script
continue looping over submodules with the "git submodule foreach" command after a non-zero exit
how do i get the sha of head in a specific git submodule?
shell script for automated git svn rebase, push to github
git branch with no commits
parse another script's output
to get git-prompt work in zsh without a bug in a function
how to get the name of the current git branch into a variable in a shell script?
looking to convert a simple svn tool to git
git update-index --assume-unchanged on directory
.gitignore doing nothing
.gitignore doing nothing
git alias with bash conditional logic comparing strings - syntax issues
establishing multiple secure identities with git?
how to install git shell
setting popup box with osascript and a 10 second delay
bash script rm cannot delete folder created by php mkdir
shell script- how can i use gksudo to perform consecutive sudo operations with only one password prompt?
set svn:ignore recursively for a directory structure
creating a 'git log' alias with formatting
graphicsmagick how to forcely covert 32bit image to 24bit bitmap
deleting a particular word from a file using shell script
is there a way to pipe the results of bundle show jquery-rails into gnome-open?
how to lock my monitor with command ?
how do i logout from a computer using shell?
wait on child scripts executed in new terminal
can i use source test1.sh with gnome-terminal -x?
how to use script command inside a unix terminal emulator?
prevent gnome terminal from exiting after execution
open multiple terminal tabs, execute commands and continue working on them
open multiple terminal tabs, execute commands and continue working on them
new terminal with multiple commands executed
open multiple tabs of gnome-terminal, each trigger command with n seconds delay
how do i run a unix terminal from java and send commands to it?
how do i start a command in a terminal as if i'd opened the terminal and typed the command
strange behavior using a space in front of $shell environment variable 
strange behavior using a space in front of $shell environment variable 
strange behavior using a space in front of $shell environment variable 
using a shell script to call multiple ros launch files
executing a command over ssh, and then running bash
how do i autorun an application in a terminal in ubuntu?
linux bash script: command executed after control-c
run a shell script in new terminal from current terminal
running a bash function in gnome-terminal -x
bash get error code in parent terminal from child terminal?
new terminal with multiple commands executed
bash command to run a program in a new  window
how do i run a unix terminal from java and send commands to it?
using "$@" inside others quotes 
scaling the values to plot a graph using gnuplot
how to pass variable to -e on gnuplot?
how to pass variable to -e on gnuplot?
how to pass  argument to gnuplot?
parametric gnuplot scripts
parametric gnuplot scripts
parametric gnuplot scripts
parametric gnuplot scripts
command and script to re-read a file in gnuplot
can't execute shell commands from gnuplot
elegant and efficient way to start gui programs from terminal without spamming it (bash or any posix shell)
preventing harmful gzip files from being extracted
suppress triggering seahorse from the ?
does fabric support command substitution?
fifos and interactive command (gpg)
decrypt multiple openpgp files in a directory
gpg with triple pipe and keyfile
extract gnutls library files of tar.xz and tar.lz for ubuntu 10.04 lts
how to enter password that an external program asks from batch file
preventing harmful gzip files from being extracted
automatically decrypt and run an encrypted bash script without saving decrypted file to file system
fifos and interactive command (gpg)
gpg encrypt only certain files in a folder
how to enter password that an external program asks from batch file
using prolog to output into bash shell
gradle: execute groovy interactive shell with project classpath
gradle: execute groovy interactive shell with project classpath
no console output available on linux when executing grails/groovy
sqlplus script from file with bash substitutions
extract a logs before one hour from log file
linux: columns values check in a file
script not reading last line of a file
script not reading last line of a file
quotes within here document s
how do i escape the following command in mac terminal?
strange output from sed
html parsing with grep and regex
shell - combine multiple sed commands
pipe urls from xml into seperate file , using sed, awk, cat or grep
pipe urls from xml into seperate file , using sed, awk, cat or grep
pipe urls from xml into seperate file , using sed, awk, cat or grep
bash search line matching hash and output it to a file
in grep, why does it need to escape  leftsquarebrc  while not for  rightsquarebrc 
bash script not quite matching
grep a time stamp in the h:mm:ss format
string pattern and regex
string pattern and regex
grep a time stamp in the h:mm:ss format
regex for timestamps in the first 5 minutes after the hour
logs between two dates i unix
search for files with pattern  leftsquarebrc a-z rightsquarebrc  
using grep to find string in two files?
in grep, why does it need to escape  leftsquarebrc  while not for  rightsquarebrc 
check if string contains non digit characters
grep excluding first char
how to run perl program automatic when the perl program isn't running?
grep a number from the line and append it to a file
i have some trouble with "grep"and collating symbols
shell script to parse log and convert to csv
using each line of awk output as grep pattern
awk search a line withing a file
preserving (reconstructing?) single quotes  arguments to script commands
is my syntax off or am i just doing this entirely wrong?
what's the error?
how to handle variables that contain ";"?
how to handle variables that contain ";"?
formating each string comming out of grep
why does this sed command not match whitespace?
passing bash input variables to awk
read selected line from text file using shell
read a file line by line - rightanglebrc  search for each line in another text document, if match, output to another text file
awk - send sum to global variable
how can i grep a nearer word from a file?
how to use  rightanglebrc  in an xargs command?
how to pass a variable from bash to regex
grep for each element of array in a loop and write to newfile with bash
grep a string with some variables 
shell command works  but not 
shell command works  but not 
printing out words from textfile -bash
printing out words from textfile -bash
read word from a file and return next word
read word from a file and return next word
awk search file for string
how to place all text from a file into the search pattern of grep?
getting specific part of output 
append the output as new line 
append the output as new line 
append the output as new line 
grep $value `grep $value2 ` leftanglebrc command rightanglebrc `` - nested grep?
getting error with variable replacement 
bash shell scripting - csv parsing
unix bash command
linux command to find text in most recent file matching name pattern
how to display all lines in file where last field is one digit
how to display all lines in file where last field is one digit
delete all lines in a text file that do not contain a string
how to grep '---' ? grep: unrecognized option '---'
what's "set -- "$progname" "$@"" means ?
reading production.log files from a few days ago
reading production.log files from a few days ago
get the highest revision number from a subversion dump file in perl or shell
invoke grep from a shell script and keep the colored patterns
why does grep lose colored output when executed from a bash script?
colorized grep -- viewing the entire file with highlighting
can grep (from ) be set up to highlight the part of the line that matches?
test whether a command option is supported
how to enable colored output from shell command wrapped in a script?
insert newlines between grep results while preserving colors
preserve colouring after piping grep to grep
grep like command to find matching lines plus neighbourhood lines
exclude .svn directories from grep
grep --include command doesn't work in osx zsh
sed command to match a file with patterns
searching for a specific string in multiple files and copying all the files recursively
grep 'binary file matches'. how to get normal grep output?
transform two lines separated by a line into one line
issue in regex pattern matching using gawk, grep
search for nullpointerexception in log
how to use command grep with several lines?
bash grep from text file and edit
grep with after-context that does not contain a keyword
how to print 2 consecutive lines after a pattern in file using awk and the matched line itself
linux: how can i grep text from string to string
shell: find a keyword in a file and get the content of the following lines
how do you grep a file and get the next 5 lines
selecting few lines together in a group from text files
getting specific part of output 
how to solve bail out error  script invoking nawk?
filtering file  using grep/sed/awk other?
how to count occurences of a string based on date
remove lines where next line matches certain pattern
awk print matching line and line before the matched
grep - print line before, don't print match
how to grep line depending the content present in the next line?
how can i extract the line which exists 2 lines before the matching line?
parsing the url from a file
how can i extract the line which exists 2 lines before the matching line?
grep exception but exclude specific exception
trying to extract a number from a plist with grep
bash search line matching hash and output it to a file
how to extract a text string using bash (or python on mac)
bash getops not passing email or ip address
what's the difference between "grep -e" and "grep -e"
remove lines without n number of a specific character?
remove lines without n number of a specific character?
how do i extract lines out of a text file using bash ?
how to filter pipeline data according to column?
grep exact string from file shell
get last occuerrence of a line with 2 specific words 
using grep to find dynamic text
find declaration and definition of function using bash
substitute string in php from another file
words before and after selected text
how to clean csv by another csv while in a 'for' loop?
how to a pull out lines only contains specific strings
awk case insensitive and boolean operator
how to grep for the first instance of the pattern among multiple patterns
how to grep for the first instance of the pattern among multiple patterns
error when assigning terminal command to bash variable
bash script parse files for multiple occurrence of string between pattern
bash script parse files for multiple occurrence of string between pattern
what is the easiest way of extracting strings from source files?
what is the easiest way of extracting strings from source files?
how to pass output of grep to sed?
sed pattern for "1.2", "1.2.3", "1.2.3.4", "1.2.3.4.5", …
way to get time string in mixed columns
extract all numbers from a text file and store them in another file
grep: group capturing
way to get time string in mixed columns
use awk/sed scripting to extract function parameters
regex to find matching pattern
how to display the first word of each line in my file using the linux commands?
bash: how do i truncate an array?
extract email adress from csv file
print regex matches using sed 
how to retrieve url from string ?
how to use grep with o option and  leftsquarebrc   rightsquarebrc ?
bash using sed to find symbols
regex  file permissions (numeric notation)
regex  file permissions (numeric notation)
how to clean csv by another csv while in a 'for' loop?
how to grep out the variables in a file?
excluding with grep
filter lines which not contain in a list
how to delete the string which is present in parameter from file 
making a mistake with | (or) in regular expressions
can you grep a file using a regular expression and only output the matching part of a line?
how to retrieve the specified parameters in a file (shell scripting )?
bash script to find/grep particular string in xml files in particular folders
grep exact string from file shell
bash grep exact search
how to grep lines that end with .c or .cpp?
how to grep lines that start with double forward slash ?
how to grep out the variables in a file?
use pipe of commands as argument for diff
bracket expressions in grep patterns
check if string match a regex  script
grep to ignore the first character
how i grep for certain log lines
match valid ip by grep and regular expression
filter words starting and ending with hyphen but not when it's found in the middle
linux swap usage oneliner with numerical only output
search 
search 
displaying output without lowercase letters
displaying output without lowercase letters
grep - print all lines containing 'cat' as the second word
bash to find lines with exact one word?
grep - print all lines containing 'cat' as the second word
match exact word using grep
recursively matching filenames with glob argument
using fgrep to find multiple words (korn shell)
how do i grep multiple lines (output from another command) at the same time?
shell command: need help about a regex match
grep for specific sentence that contains  leftsquarebrc  rightsquarebrc 
bash search for string in each line of file
use bash to read file then do "grep" with the line against the file itself
search for single quoted grep strings?
regex - find and replace string
shell script: search maillog for each folder name in directory
awk text file comparison (how many times contains 'b' file the strings from 'a' file)
how to compare two text files for the same exact text using bash?
keep the content of a text with specific same columns 
extract lines containing one of large number of strings from file
text comparison with grep (a.txt contians words, b.txt contains strings, if a string from b.txt contains words form a - rightanglebrc  output)
find words in one file and grab the line they are in in another file: bash script
why using cat | grep to search matched text is super slow
script to remove redundant lines from two different files
display duplicate lines in two different files
removing rows that don't contain strings from csv file, using one-line reg exp grep/sed
how to find which line from first file appears most frequently in second file?
shell: get line from file1 by content in file2
comparing with a blacklist and saving the output
grep or sed to compare data in two files
awk text file comparison (how many times contains 'b' file the strings from 'a' file)
search multiple strings in multiple files
what is the most efficient way to subtract one list from another?
filter lines which not contain in a list
exclude lines from output based on patterns in file
generating diff between two asymmetric files 
bash, compare files. removing values from file a that exist in file b
filter lines which not contain in a list
word frequency tally script is too slow
filtering file entries based on another file as match condition
how to extract entries from a .txt file using another .txt file as a list
shell script - comparing lines of text, deleting matches
how to test if string exists in file with bash shell?
check if line exists in a file
exclude duplicate lines from two different files and generate new?
fastest way of finding differences between two files ?
comparing 2 unsorted lists , listing the unique in the second file
using sed to remove lines from a txt file
how to retrieve the specified parameters in a file (shell scripting )?
apache grep big log file
extract file names from a folder based on conditions
bash grep output filename and line no without matches
counting the number of occurrences of a character in multiple files with unix shell
counting the number of occurrences of a character in multiple files with unix shell
remove a line from a .txt line on grep match 
how do you search for files containing dos line endings (crlf) with grep on linux?
, how to find files which there is "test" string in,exclude binary files
passing options to grep in ~/.bashrc
use grep to find content in files and move them if they match
xargs inconsistent behavior and -n1 parameter
check the occurrence of the first character in multiple files using sed,awk or grep
find files not containing search string
list all the files which do not contain a particular string
grep: invalid repetition count
how to search for a pattern using grep and exclude another pattern
regex for greping emails in file
bash search command that checks preceeding characters
i’m stuck in trying to grep anything just after `name=`
how to grep for this pattern 
is this text extraction scenario possible  bash shell?
shell script + match error words in the log file
how to use a grep style "-w" option in perl sed?
how to use a grep style "-w" option in perl sed?
regex - shell scripting
script to extract characters from a file
script to remove string and keep numbers from files
bash get n characters before a specified character
convert regex capturing group from uppercase underscore to camel case
.* too greedy in sed
extract the string between quotes of particular occurrence 
how to get list of file names and their sentence containing a specific search string?
extract dates from a specific json format with sed
extract value from result linux
regex to match string between brackets
piping to grep and using regex
extract specific tag from html output of a python script
run curl command on each line of a file and fetch data from result
extract number between html tags
read the json data 
parsing json  with regex
get string between two special characters
how to use a sed one-liner to parse "rec:id=1&name=zz&age=21" into "1 zz 21"?
slurm reservation output parsing
find the double quotes values and print them using awk
how do i get value of variable from file using shell script?
match a string that could have a newline anywhere in it in - bash
regex formatting using grep
extract string from square brackets
how to handle parenthesis in grep?
found string with regex in awk or sed
code for parsing a key/value in in file from shell script
extract version number from a string
extract version number from a string
tcpdump - ignore unkown host error
remove everything after a pattern (.com)
how to extract substring and numbers only using grep/sed
grep after match
piping to grep and using regex
regular expression to extract (video) names from html tags
why this regex does not work with grep?
sed regex to find name of database in use sentence
regex that matches contents of () with nested () in it
grep passwords from all web.config files using cygwin
removing the  leftanglebrc /p rightanglebrc  tag from grep output
start with 11th word until character '-' is found by using awk command 
grep first group regexp
grep first group regexp
remove only the last extension from file name
(unix) changing a row to a column in a text file
(unix) changing a row to a column in a text file
bash get n characters before a specified character
get values from json file
get values from json file
how to correctly split with awk
parsing multiple values from a file
extract string between 2 characters
how to delete leading spaces using standart linux utils
search for files with pattern  leftsquarebrc a-z rightsquarebrc  
extract resolution from string
how to parse watch command output to last 5 digits?
extract dates from a specific json format with sed
extract string between 2 characters
bash script strip string matching pattern
get string between characters 
how to extract multiple string occurences between two matching patterns using sed or grep commands
remove everything after a pattern (.com)
how to extract string following a pattern with grep, regex or perl
how to extract exact value from xml file 
bash grep stopping at first match
counting number of lines which contain a pattern
how to use grep to match with either whitespace or newline
how to grep for this pattern 
bash: one-liner to exit with the opposite status of a grep command?
how to find date and ipaddress in a text with regex  bash
incorrect egrep command
how to grep and cut at the same time
regex query to print required output
how to search for a pattern using grep and exclude another pattern
regex capture anything between tags, match against anything between escaped tags
how to parse a .m file ?
how to find a double quoted string using grep and regex?
get string between "-(" and ")-", linux directory
multiple grep search/ignore patterns
how can i grep a keyword which contain underscore?
using grep to find and edit the correct form
grep to find a file that contains a string in a directory
grep/find/xargs: search between two strings in folder or result of wget
grep/find/xargs: search between two strings in folder or result of wget
unix grep command
how to find a double quoted string using grep and regex?
is it possible to find the file which contains a specific text ?
linux - how to search for words in files and print how many times they occur?
stop search param in directories by grep immediately after param match
is there a way to 'inject' a  output into another command?
searching linux files for a string (i.e.root credentials)
exclude .svn directories from grep
bash: convert hex representation inside a string to binary equivalent
how to wrap output lines in quotes ?
find and remove dos line endings on ubuntu
grep and sed - replace all instances of a string
grep 'binary file matches'. how to get normal grep output?
find a regex in /dev/urandom and print it to std out 
shell scripting unwanted '?' character at the end of file name
double quotes inside double quotes 
double quotes inside double quotes 
double quotes inside double quotes 
is my syntax off or am i just doing this entirely wrong?
bash - adding a item to a textfile
find the number of entries in a file and remove those enties using a shell script
counting number of lines which contain a pattern
how to search for a pattern using grep and exclude another pattern
count number of blank lines in a file
count number of occurrences of a specific regex on multiple files
grep -c value nh:i:1 only for every line in file, not also nh:i:12
bash - quickly determine the number of lines in a file that start with a uppercase
shell: what the means of number of sentence
grep count of a string with a filter condition
search pattern occurrence in log file only where other pattern occur
obtain the number of cpus/cores 
how to: make -j x // where x is automatically determined
grep/sed : ignore a number
how can i count the occurrences of a string within a file using bash?
if grep file wordcount equals number then
count occurences of string in output from qstat
use grep for total count of string found inside file directory
from linux , find number of lines in which a string occurs
how do i get the # of logical cpus in zsh or bash?
finding the frequency of an expression in all files of a directory
finding the frequency of an expression in all files of a directory
best way to extract number of partitions?
bash script to count the number of occurances of a string in a file
bash storing grep into a variable
use grep for total count of string found inside file directory
what's the difference between "grep -e" and "grep -e"
grep: invalid repetition count
check who delete files via ssh
search log file for string with bash script
bracket expressions in grep patterns
finding common columns position between files
taking result of a grep search and using it to search another file. linux bash script
passing stdout to grep as pattern argument
behavior of 'grep -w -f" when there are multiple/incomplete matches
comparing two files for duplicate strings using mac bash
alternative to grep
filter a list of urls from a list of domain names using bash
awk and grep for existence
find difference between two text files with one item per line
using each line of awk output as grep pattern
find matches between 2 files
grep from file doesn't write result to an output file
print the names which are in both files
grepping lines from a document using xargs
modifying grep output to have field descriptions
how can i grep in a loop?
grepping lines from a document using xargs
taking result of a grep search and using it to search another file. linux bash script
regex compare strings from multiple files
assign line a variable name unix
selectively parsing log files using java
bash - how to count number of instructions?
how to pass results of results to another command ?
grep sed command
extract mail id from script
extract mail id from script
how to output occurrences of phrase to a file for a given directory?
grepping an integer from line start bash
ensuring grep matches from multiple files are on their own line
html parsing with grep and regex
bash script with using special characters in variable array and copy to folder
how to grep line numbers of a text file after entries are displayed to the screen
how do i fetch lines before/after the grep result ?
grep with negative pattern
how to find all files containing a string?
how to find all files containing a string?
find & replace recursively except for certain files
how to find all files containing a string?
grep last n matches across files
grep multiple patterns from a file and output first 5 matches for each pattern
how to grep line numbers of a text file after entries are displayed to the screen
bash - view a specific line in a file with corresponding line number
using sed to get only line number of "grep -in"
grep regex for mac address
how to get skype usernames from a file using grep?
regex phrase between article (a/an/the) and number (1-4 digits)
shell script linux substract parameter grep
shell script linux substract parameter grep
why is this command within my code giving different result than the same command in terminal?
parsing log to recover sql insert info
grep and sed with spaces in filenames
grep: list 'per-file' results
cannot get this simple sed command
cannot get this simple sed command
searching for strings with dashes with grep
bash script with using special characters in variable array and copy to folder
extract text from txt file  using grep when there is ambguity
extract text from txt file  using grep when there is ambguity
check given string in file using shell script
trying to pass regular expression to grep
capture information about both the file and the regexp found
how do i make grep output to a file?
how to escape single quotes /grep?
how can i grep while avoiding 'too many arguments'
find whether a string is present directly or indirectly in all files
how to get grep -m1 to work in osx
find and replace with grep and sed in osx
list files that contains telephone numbers in a unix directory
how can i check all files with grep ?
sorting files based on content using 
evaluating a bash command with if
how can i grep while avoiding 'too many arguments'
bash: escape characters in backticks
bash: escape characters in backticks
how to delete html meta tag using sed?
bash - create a for loop to find all values in directories
select all files that do not have string between 2 other strings
find utf-8 strings in all files under a directory
find . -type -exec fgrep problems
how to replace a string in multiple files using grep and sed when the -i argument is not supported?
find files where 2 given words occur in
piping filenames from grep to function
awk: printing filename once when criteria are met several times in a file
using grep or awk to find files that contain both "a" and "b" that are on different lines
evaluating a bash command with if
using bash to list files with a certain combination of characters
how do i grep the contents of files returned by grep?
how do i pass the resulting files from one grep pass to another so that i only grep through the subset with the second pass?
how do i grep the contents of files returned by grep?
piping grep result to awk
search just one into each file
trying to locate where bash fires some message
how to get names of all the files (in one directory) contain a certain line of text?
grep and replace multiple strings between multiple files
how to find which file contains a string from many files in a directory?
how to find which file contains a string from many files in a directory?
how to search an expression in a file from a bash script?
linux take out string from file and use it as file name?
linux take out string from file and use it as file name?
how can i make grep stop after hitting a first pattern match in a large file?
why is grep displaying command as part of output?
bash - extract integer from logfile with sed
bash how to extract first match from n files efficiently
how to grep for the first instance of the pattern among multiple patterns
get ssh remote command to terminate so that xargs with parallel option can continue
extracting minimum and maximum from line number grep
printing grep results to file and terminal
bash script for searching from a list of files in directory
selectively parsing log files using java
selectively parsing log files using java
how to solve the point in regex?
find float in a text file
bash perform multiple grep searches using patterns stored in a file
use egrep with long pattern list  script
how to extract string following a pattern with grep, regex or perl
grep get matched text's filename and line number 
get the matches only if the substring is not part of a string
redirecting grep to a file in the directory of search causes infinite recursion
compares lines in two files
bash grep sth. then to find the position
in ksh/grep: finding a pattern not after the comment marker
sed/awk: insert some text in a file after the last pattern found
how to get the line number?
unix: print file name and line number of each line that exceeds 80 characters of each file in a folder
how to replace : in grep output +
how to replace : in grep output +
match against word in single quotes
match against word in single quotes
numbering lines matching the pattern using sed
how to get all lines after a line number
awk command to go to a specific line in a file that contains the word
use grep to count the number of times a word got repeated in a file
bash scripting: using $( to assign variables
fetch numeric value from string
grep a time stamp in the h:mm:ss format
using awk to grab only numbers from a string
grep logs for ips in the format  leftsquarebrc client 123.456.78.90 rightsquarebrc 
how do you extract ip addresses from files using a regex in a linux shell?
counting the number of 10-digit numbers in a file
extract dates from a specific json format with sed
extract date from string 
bash: extract (percent) number of variable length from a string
grep or sed for word containing string
selecting text in quotes
bash - removing characters other than specific string
locating all argument numbers  script
linux: fix the output content from a file
cut command  terminating on quotation marks
cut command  terminating on quotation marks
shell grep, regex to find a specific occurence
obtain a string from 1 line string using grep, egrep, or sed with regular expression
add newline after email address
grep read form certain character/word to certain character/word
finding list of strings from a list that are present in a file
how can i add a new line to a large file every n characters in terminal (one liner sed)?
grep for line containing jboss- until next /
find free ip addresses in dhcpd.conf
bash extract string from line of text
how to find/extract a pattern from a file?
regex/sed example to spot numbers
how to find a words in html file
yet another problm on text processing using cut command
how do i know what characters i need to escape in regular expressions?
summarize count of multiple patterns 
how to use variables  grep?
match every instance of regex 
yet another problm on text processing using cut command
find pattern in large text file quickly?
parsing html on the ; how to capture text in  leftanglebrc strong rightanglebrc  leftanglebrc /strong rightanglebrc ?
linux: extract one word after a specific word on the same line
extract filename and its extension from a text
grep print only after match
extract a substring of 11 characters from a line using sed,awk or perl
how to retrieve digits including the separator "."
trimming output of script
how to strip a number in the output of an executable?
grep specific text from log
unix text parsing
how to print everything inside  leftsquarebrc  rightsquarebrc  only?
awk extract of a series of lines
grep spotify songname into text file from html doc
extract multiple occurences on the same line using sed/regex
how to extract the content between two brackets by using grep?
sed regex and back reference
extract all characters after a match - shell script
get text between two strings 
how to get skype usernames from a file using grep?
how to get skype usernames from a file using grep?
how do i return just an individual string ?
extract one pattern or another from output - not entire line
how to extract the percentage from the last row using grep?
how to extract filenames and check if exists using regular expressions?
extract xml value  script
regular expression for the search string
how to search for a pattern using grep and exclude another pattern
parsing data in file
bash: cutting a delimited fragment of each string
how to find a pattern and surrounding content in a very large single line file?
setting a variable in a while loop 
extract one pattern or another from output - not entire line
extract one pattern or another from output - not entire line
i have a file and i need to extract a particular string followed after the regex 'ln:' from the second line
how to search and copy particular pattern from a file to another file
unix bash - extract a line from file
grep -p no longer works how can i rewrite my searches
how to strip a number in the output of an executable?
finding unique file names from an html file
sed or awk regex, stop matching after semi-colon
print a specific field from last but one line
need a regular expression for extracting data and writing to file
need a regular expression for extracting data and writing to file
how to extract the content between two brackets by using grep?
regexp on nmap services file
how to cut ifconfig to get eth* details alone?
how to output only text after a match with sed
how to search for two different expressions 
grep - regular expression - match till a specific word
what is the best way to print regex hits?
bash using quotes in grep/cut commands in scripts
linux script which will display xml encoding
how can i parse this string out ?
how can i parse this string out ?
regex that considers characters outside the match
grab all instances of pattern from single line of text, edit, pipe out to line-separated text file
grep filter not stop at first match
how to use variables  grep?
how to get skype usernames from a file using grep?
sed extract link from html page
sorting an email log file from the last 2 years. trying to find unique entries by user email
shell: what the means of number of sentence
getting text from html page, shell
how to trim specific text with grep
how to store the output of sed command 
shell script to select all numbers from a file
count most occuring characters in text
count most occuring characters in text
remove all the characters from string after last '/'
get substring from string with grep command
grep entire line after word
how to modify a file name within a shell script?
how to grep a substring in a line which a is variable assignment?
bash: retrieving number after a given string
how do i get a selection from the output of a grep
finding unique file names from an html file
regex for the same pattern multiple times in one line
use grep (or any other cmd line tool) to count lines that contain different pattern
awk: characters-frequency from one text file?
awk: characters-frequency from one text file?
how can i delete duplicate words in text file
sed - know the matched text as test before doing real substitution
linux regex - using an or operator at beginning of line
print first 80 char in a line  pipe
unable to capture part of a line using sed -n '/.../p'
grep to get  leftanglebrc div rightanglebrc  content
, how to extract a word and a following number from a file?
url host base directory parsing 
grepping string from long text
grepping string from long text
parsing a comma-separated "key: value" string
how to extract string following a pattern with grep, regex or perl
how to use grep with o option and  leftsquarebrc   rightsquarebrc ?
how to get all matches from regex?
sed/awk: extract pattern from text stream
linux - get text from second tab
bash grep stopping at first match
take and use input as number
take and use input as number
 leftsquarebrc : ==: unary operator expected-bash
how can i suppress output of grep
regex  file permissions (numeric notation)
grep for multiple strings in a single line
square bracket ( test condition ) stuff  and advance case statement
appending a line to a file only if it doesnt already exist. using sed?
check for a specific delimiter per line - bash
sed add line if not exists
bash script : unwanted output
stop search param in directories by grep immediately after param match
linux bash script to change a string if another string exists in file
comparing variable to grep statement
check the occurrence of the first character in multiple files using sed,awk or grep
how to add a line in sed if not match is found
how can i suppress output of grep
two styles of check return value in ksh
shell - var length with if condition gives error
shell scripting using sed
print xml tag with bash
how to arrange output of grep command 
recursive grep  in cygwin
zsh glob qualifier to exclude binary files
grep excluding file name pattern
how to locate a string among all files under a directory?
shell programming file search and append
how do i use grep to search the current directory for all files having the a string "hello" yet display only .h and .cc files?
bash: find references to filenames in other files
bash: find references to filenames in other files
bash: find references to filenames in other files
zsh glob qualifier to exclude binary files
how to exclude multiple pattern using grep
grep, but only certain file extensions
find and replace string in all files recursive using grep and sed
find all files with text "example.html" and replace with "example.php" works only if no spaces are in file name
elegant way to search for utf-8 files with bom?
get all html files in directory through terminal that don't have explicit extension
how do i grep for a backtick?
search multiple strings in multiple files
search multiple strings in multiple files
linux - replace a string
grep or find and sed to replace string
write a shell script that find-greps files and outputs only those filenames
how to use grep to find all files that contain one pattern but don't have a second?
how to get my expected search result using grep on linux
how do i use the filenames output by "grep" as argument to another program
linux take out string from file and use it as file name?
recursive grep search for special charactes (c++ operators) in a file
how can i properly escape this regex ?
grep with upper bound for middle of search pattern
want to pass an argument to my shell function
want to pass an argument to my shell function
want to pass an argument to my shell function
want to pass an argument to my shell function
want to pass an argument to my shell function
create a file with the grep search in a folder where the search is done
how print all the attributes values of the title attributes in all my xml files
recursive grep to show only total matchin count
how can i find files within a directory containing paths to /bin but not shbangs?
using sed to scan c++ files
foreach: grep backtick in for-loop
foreach: grep backtick in for-loop
grep search all files in directory for string1 and string2
grep limit depth of file path
.h file exists, but no .cpp file
if i grep recursivley through a directory, how can i save the resulting output to a simple .txt file?
linux + find word in file under directory but quickly
check for a string in a folder with an if statement
bourne shell exit will not work
how to deal with nfs latency s
why do i get unexpected token?
remove lines containing space 
not operator in regex
bash - remove multiple different lines of text from a text file
how to remove the row that has special characters in it
finding special characters in array of string varialbes bash script
how to remove the row that has special characters in it
simple bash script not terminating
unexpected output from bash script when ran as cgi in apache and not when ran via . how to reproduce the apache-only bug?
sed regex match non-whitespace or tab
remove a variety of lines in a text file
remove rows from a csv file when a 4 columns have null values
how to delete all lines from a csv file containing an exact match of a search term?
bash script regex: less than or equal to x digits
remove rows from a csv file when a 4 columns have null values
how to delete lines containing only numbers ?
how to select not commented rows?
filter words starting and ending with hyphen but not when it's found in the middle
adding an || regx to a bash ``ed one-liner in a perl script
grep one file and remove contents of the grep with sed -i on a second file
grep one file and remove contents of the grep with sed -i on a second file
grep one file and remove contents of the grep with sed -i on a second file
remove all lines containing word not in dictionary
comparing 2 files and extracting elements from file
delete whole line containing multiple words 
bash script regex: less than or equal to x digits
how to delete all lines containing a particular string, but only when the character afterwards is a cjk character?
how to delete all lines containing a particular string, but only when the character afterwards is a cjk character?
how do i invert search using grep for multiple strings of text
searching for strings
bash substracting files on key line by line
sed : removing lines where pattern result also appears elsewhere
removing lines matching a pattern
sed to search for multiple words and remove those lines
using a dictionary file with sed
sed to read one file and delete pattern in second file
find difference between two text files with one item per line
for every string in file1.txt check if it exists in file2.txt then do something
how to remove common lines between two files without sorting?
filter lines which not contain in a list
using grep invert function to compare two md5 hash lists
removing lines based on column values read from file
how to make "grep" read patterns from a file?
fgrep or egrep?
output line from file1 if not found in file2
(shell) how to remove strings from one file which can be found in another file?
search in column 1 of the text file shell script
how to compare a list of variables ?
how to compare a list of variables ?
delete lines from file a that is in file b
remove row which contains specific delimiter with different number of columns
get lines which don't end with semi-colon from a file
delete a line if a condition occurs using awk or sed
sed: how to remove entire line matching specific string?
bash - color escapes codes
display a few lines before selected word
grep. line of text that does not end with "abcd"?
how to split a string or file that may be delimited by a combination of comments and spaces, tabs, newlines, commas, or other characters
how do i determine the slowest component of my shell pipeline?
how to delete all lines in text file that not begins with character # or & or * with sed or grep?
adding bash history time export temporarily for output?
skip line in text file which starts with '#' via kornshell (ksh)
sed does not recognize -r flag on aix
concise and portable "join" on the unix command-line
to remove blank lines in data set
remove line from text file given first word
how to print a file, excluding comments and blank lines, using grep/sed?
replacing a line in a csv file?
replacing a line in a csv file?
how to delete the rows that start with "c" with awk?
unix command to ignore lines that begins with x
how do i find lines in a file without exactly 35 occurrences of a character?
delete empty lines from a file
delete lines in a files using sed
excluding with grep
excluding with grep
not operator in regex
how do you delete all lines that begin with "string"  sh?
grep. line of text that does not end with "abcd"?
delete specific rows based on specific word in column
bashscript to go through huge file and remove some lines
generating a directory listing as webserver index page 
use shell script to traverse subdirectories and do grep
filter lines which not contain in a list
filter lines which not contain in a list
ignore mysql tables in backup script
how can i read a file and display only the relevant lines using grep?
aliasing `grep -w 'label for'` only searches for the first word (label)
unix cat : no such file or directory error
unix cat : no such file or directory error
get last occuerrence of a line with 2 specific words 
find matches between 2 files
how to use grep via awk?
grep -c value nh:i:1 only for every line in file, not also nh:i:12
how to select different lines by bash,pipe?
shell: grep the true value
how to grep for the exact word if the string has got dot in it
how do i get the words without these characters?
 for counting specific word occurrences in a file (such as numbers of keys in a json)
sorting output in c shell
sorting output in c shell
grep - list all lines not containing both pattern
using grep find the exact words inbox and outbox in a file
how do i stop multiple line output from command substitution from being concatenated  script?
grep exact string from file shell
escaping quotes: `grep -w "label for=\"id_query"` does not work
conditional bash search?
exact grep -f command 
exact grep -f command 
using grep to find difference between two big wordlists
comparing a file against whitelist regex (with special characters)
outputs to newfile if line contains "-" or " "
shell process substitution and xargs command doesn't work
shell process substitution and xargs command doesn't work
unix bash command
shell process substitution and xargs command doesn't work
shell process substitution and xargs command doesn't work
how to grep for a file extension
what is the unix command to display all lines of a file with two certain strings
linux take out string from file and use it as file name?
how to efficiently process log file using c implementation
how to pass results of results to another command ?
shell script - unix
shell script - unix
using sed, how do you print the first 'n' characters of a line?
grep a pattern and ignore others
delete a string from all files in a directory
using sed, how do you print the first 'n' characters of a line?
how do i limit the number of results returned from grep? (i would like to say 10 lines max from grep)
how to grep listening on port 80 that can also filter other port contain 80 such as 8080 8088 ...?
directory traversal bash shell
how to find the directory a device is mounted to?
unix find: list of files from stdin
is there any write buffer  programming?
logs between two dates i unix
parsing external command output and saving as variables
how to get username from know uid  api?
how to combine results of grep command
how to combine results of grep command
how to grep, then cut from a delimited column file?
how do i print a range of data in awk?
using bash pipe instead of select statement
how to grep for a particular pattern within another pattern
i have some trouble with "grep"and collating symbols
using grep with delimiter and wildcard to search information from file
search for a pattern "= leftsquarebrc char rightsquarebrc  leftsquarebrc string rightsquarebrc " using awk in a file
apache log grep, awk or sed
remove all lines without @ sign
how to match lines where a variable is found somewhere between two characters with grep?
compute numerical values from a space separated text file, within a range of lines
running python program after it is terminated via crontab
why is $display sometimes :0 and sometimes :1
variable in backtick statement
delete lines in file if no text beneath
shell script to write the selected text to single line
script doesn't execute, rather it hangs
script doesn't execute, rather it hangs
using range in grep
unix bash - extract a line from file
using linux top command to compute used memory percentage
using linux top command to compute used memory percentage
how to get physical memory 
how can i execute grep in a script?
sed how to show only largest number of line containing "page"
grep commad is not working properly
storage in awk when used with
count total bytes in a big file between two chars matching some rules by line
sorting an array, but possible duplicates
grep: how to search for a value but at the same time exclude some matches
unknown bash scripts running when terminal opens?
grep information and save as a file readable to excel?
get part of a string 
processing a pcap/dmp file for time-to-live, user-agent, and os
when to use set -e
linux take out string from file and use it as file name?
confusion on grep pattern search
grep regex inside bash
grep one file and remove contents of the grep with sed -i on a second file
bash grep exact search
detect repeated characters using grep
regex to remove lines in file(s) that ending with same or defined letters
making sure a file path is complete in grep
making sure a file path is complete in grep
how to regexp match surrounding whitespace or beginning/end of line
counting how many lines continue to next line ?
grep syntax with capitals
check for substring  without bashisms
use "grep" command to find txt files containing telephone number
git diff parse using grep shell command
git diff parse using grep shell command
git diff parse using grep shell command
passing variable to grep 
passing variable to grep 
executing shell command from ruby console returning permission denied error?
how to only read lines that contain some letters at a specific position in the line
bash get first n non white space characters
git diff parse 
bash: compound grep in
bash: write regex matches to separate file
how to delete all lines in text file that not begins with character # or & or * with sed or grep?
grep to ignore the first character
grep excluding first char
how to print lines that only contain characters from a list ?
grep a number from the line and append it to a file
shell script to get exception from logs for last one hour
shell script to get exception from logs for last one hour
shell file parsing to automate youtube uploads
shell script to get exception from logs for last one hour
shell script to get exception from logs for last one hour
illegal number 
read selected line from text file using shell
what does this shell script do? what are headingcopy and linecopy? variables?
how to grep a word that has special character '$' in it?
how to grep a word that has special character '$' in it?
how can i write a bash script that "slides" some variables from a file?
bash programming stdin redirect
shell scripting and using backslashes with back-ticks?
shell scripting and using backslashes with back-ticks?
remove a variety of lines in a text file
how to efficiently process log file using c implementation
linux bash, print line contaning string in a column
how do i randomize egrep results 
specific string search
how do i grep for this pattern
how to grep the exact match
parsing massive file with with grep, awk, etc
basic shell scripting 
how do i select words with a particular structure from a file in a shell script?
strange behavior  variables
simple command for showing comments on shell script
parsing csv file  script
shell - grep - how to get only lines that have certain amount char
searching at beginning of every line
executing shell command from ruby console returning permission denied error?
find a string in a file
bash grep command starts with or ends with
how to grep a word that has special character '$' in it?
square bracket ( test condition ) stuff  and advance case statement
square bracket ( test condition ) stuff  and advance case statement
"bash: __gitdir: command not found" error in terminal
how can i change `grep '^2013-12-03'` to "2 days ago"?
add some text to a bunch of lines
grep command-line with "or" from dos window (gnu grep)
what is the unix command to display all lines of a file with two certain strings
shell grep command to pick only particular string
how to know the number of displayed lines of the "cat" command?
how to know the number of displayed lines of the "cat" command?
how to grep this kind of pattern out using this "grep" command?
how to grep this kind of pattern out using this "grep" command?
using bash sed command to strip a line
recursively matching filenames with glob argument
how to fgrep/egrep exact string in a file
parsing each field and process it using 'awk'/'gawk'
extracting last 10 lines of a file that match "foo"
prevent sed from outputting rest of file
how to extract key value which contain spaces or quotes after key name
are both stderror and stdout printed on the screen?
are both stderror and stdout printed on the screen?
grep search all whitespaces zero or more times
grep not stopping
how can i write a shell script to direct grep data into a date-based filename?
how can i write a shell script to direct grep data into a date-based filename?
shell script to get exception from logs for last one hour
ubuntu : how to clear $shell history
how to store the result of an executed shell command in a variable in python?
shell wildcards
shell wildcards
shell wildcards
how to determine whether a given linux is 32 bit or 64 bit?
file names with spaces as bulk arguments
bash expression evaluation order on 
keep the delimiter in the output of cut
extracting last 10 lines of a file that match "foo"
pipe, standard input and  arguments 
mysterious output for  leftanglebrc cmd rightanglebrc  followed by \ or `
selecting lines which match any word from a list with grep
extract matches of a regex capturing group from a file
how to only grep one of each address. linux
i need help coding a simple script 
how can i find lines in one file but not the other using bash scripting?
how can i find lines in one file but not the other using bash scripting?
which unix utility can help me extract specific characters from a line in the file
why i can't split the string?
shell commands to match key value pairs
use lines in a file as filenames for grep?
use lines in a file as filenames for grep?
trying to extract character string out of a line containing another character string using sed
pattern search within directory
how do i search for a keyword in a file and print out the string following the keyword?
how to print a particular nr with awk
finding unique values in a data file
print last matching line
substring extraction using bash shell scripting and awk
using colored output for awk, or grep multiple pattern search in and condition
find, grep, and execute - all in one?
use grep --exclude/--include syntax to not grep through certain files
new line separator for each grep result sh script
find, grep, and execute - all in one?
differences between  leftsquarebrc  rightsquarebrc  and () in an "if" condition
concatenate many lines of output to one line
redirect command output without overwriting
concatenate many lines of output to one line
read an input file one line at a time to pass as input to grep
querying selective files using grep
egrep and operator
bash execute multiple greps on each line in a file
how to grep for the first instance of the pattern among multiple patterns
"not found" error 
how to automatically ignore files in grep
grepping for certain extensions with an arbitrary depth
using the grep and cut delimiter command ( scripting unix) - and kind of "reversing" it?
using grep to find string in two files?
extract a logs before one hour from log file
grep + fit grep syntax for solaris
shell command - condition based on output of command?
remove all lines without @ sign
how do i get sed to read from standard input?
regex: not followed by
run a bash script automatically upon login
grep search string and copy line from tsv to another file
calling uniq and sort in different orders 
how display color message from bash script?
bash: expanding variables with spaces
copy a line containing a string to another file 
copy a line containing a string to another file 
how to ignore "can't open file" error message 
grep-ing multiple files
how to search for text in file and display lines
shell unix : grep wild card
bash script get files in subfolders which contains a special line
i want to search a word from a file and replace it with another value in file
i want to search a word from a file and replace it with another value in file
use command grep and locate
date checker script
bash - how can i make the log file accessable via tcp port when-ever requires?
regarding grep in solaris
bash scripting - search files for line above search criteria
bash scripting - search files for line above search criteria
bash scripting - search files for line above search criteria
how to add blank line after every grep result using perl?
how to add blank line after every grep result using perl?
how to add blank line after every grep result using perl?
simple text search bash
simple text search bash
search a text in a file in ubuntu and then print upto n no of lines thereafter
how can i translate a shell script to perl?
grep + fit grep syntax for solaris
combine two particular lines using sed
bash - how can i search a value from whole directory and find some matched value, then on the fly replace that line by saving it
how to delete all lines containing a particular string, but only when the character afterwards is a cjk character?
how to create a bash function with variable parameters/arguments to grep several keywords/tags
run aspell on manpage
run aspell on manpage
run aspell on manpage
rg.codehaus.groovy.control.multiplecompilationerrorsexception when i have 2 differente jdbc jars on classpath
start a groovy script directly from its url
start a groovy script directly from its url
problems with groupadd
using egrep within loop
difficulty in getting gitbook site to show up in github page
difficulty in getting gitbook site to show up in github page
how to define a shell script with variable number of arguments?
understanding sed hold-space work-flow
bash script to check if screen lock is enabled
 custom function
gstreamer - opus caps parsing error, anyone know how to fix it?
writing to tape drive multiple times using tar command
writing to tape drive multiple times using tar command
how to redirect output of program to a file
creating a script from a complex bash command
untar a file on solaris reports - tar: directory checksum error
gunzip / extract file "portion by portion"
du --zip myfile.zip?
how to extract .tar.gz on current directory? (no subfolder)
open files in existing gvim in multiple (new) tabs
open files in existing gvim in multiple (new) tabs
open files in existing gvim in multiple (new) tabs
what character-by-character diff tools for the  are there?
how to launch vim opening 4 files in 2 tabs, with 2 windows in each
correctly passing a path from zsh (cygwin) to vim on windows
counting the occurrence of a sub-graph in a graph
is it possible to append a stdout to another stdout?
trying to parse logfile based on start and end time
how to gzip files and keep original extension?
gzip: merge a set of small files ( leftanglebrc 64mb) into several larger files (64mb or 128mb)
pipe multiple files (gz) into c program
shell-scripting: use a pipe as an input for tar
howto run a bash compressed script?
howto run a bash compressed script?
howto run a bash compressed script?
how to uncompress a tar.gz in another folder
swiftmailer: can't open .tar.gz archives on linux
how can i pipe this echo at the end of this line instead of at the beginning, in zsh?
how can i pipe this echo at the end of this line instead of at the beginning, in zsh?
how to write a directory  leftsquarebrc not just the files in it  rightsquarebrc  to a tar.gz file in golang
bash getopts dropping last argument
hadoop sample map reduce program using awk
grep across multiple files in hadoop filesystem
hadoop & bash: delete filenames matching range
parse a text file 
how to list only file name in hdfs
how to list only file name in hdfs
hadoop mapreduce multiple input files
bash script help - testing for hex value between multiple ranges
passing an array with spaces to a bash function to act as its list of arguments
how to output a list of files on bash 
which ctags shows /usr/local/bin/ctags but when i run ctags it runs /usr/bin/ctags. how is this possible?
`which` finds file, but `bash` doesn't
ruby referring to deleted location on mac osx
bash not honoring $path?
how to use pip with multiple instances of python
unable to install git from source code
incorrect ctags called from os x 
where's the hxml docs?
how to add column to column family in hbase
hdfs  append
comparing two values  with hadoop
print filename and the file modify date from the output of hdfs dfs -ls command
get hard drive model name with bash
get hard drive model name with bash
piping filename from grep to head
problem with ruby, rails, zsh and rvm
how to output all lines of a file without the last line?
what does this shell script do? what are headingcopy and linecopy? variables?
move top 1000 lines from text file to a new file using unix shell commands
time delay after printing lines with sed or awk in large file
can i store file contents to a variable in a shell script?
how to result from head command to sed to add to the first line of the file?
linux shell script - search for a string (date) in the first line of a file and copy it to a new file?
shell script to add header to a file
subshell io redirection
wrong formatting when using print in awk
windows equiv of the 'head' command
shell script syntax error in expression
how to set input into integer form ?
use awk towards line variable
copy the data from one file to another
copy the data from one file to another
bash file manipulation
random password variable disappears
openwrt ash script
openwrt ash script
random password variable disappears
how can i write into a particular line of a file in a bash script?
how to get only the first ten bytes of a binary file
linux command (like cat) to read a specified quantity of characters
generate dummy files 
how to generate random numbers in the busybox shell
really simple encryption for epoch
a random string generator in a bash script isn't respecting the number of given characters
passing input to sed, and sed info to a string
how can we remove last 7 lines of file 
omit lines from the beginning or end of a file 
removing the last line of a text file, instead of appending one?
permanently delete a specific last number lines of a file
how to use sed to remove last n lines of a file
what's an easy way to trim n lines from the tail of a file (without the use of 'head')?
how to pipe a command result to a - leftanglebrc character rightanglebrc  leftanglebrc argument rightanglebrc  option? (without spaces)
make head stop waiting for input
make head stop waiting for input
using parameters in a shell script
using parameters in a shell script
linux: extract the first line of a file
hide error message 
keep the first 52000 characters of the first line 
keep the first 52000 characters of the first line 
general solution for bypassing file headers  commands
how to get the first line of a file in a bash script?
csv column counts via  alias
why is sort -k not working all the time?
sed: how to remove every 10 lines in a file (thin or subsample the file)
unix cat to output only range of rows
beginner problem  commands and pipes
beginner problem  commands and pipes
sort file beginning at a certain line
how do i sort a file after a certain row ?
how to escape " in sed on windows?
using head and tail to return the nth item from a file 
extracting many lines out of a huge text file
insert street sed
csh inline math
is there a shell command to pick the n-th line?
how to match lines without some strings in sed
splitting of files based on a criteria
linux awk text file processing
unix - head and tail of file
how can i split a string into two with posix sh?
right align/pad numbers 
how to convert a string into an array within a bash function
how to convert a string into an array within a bash function
parsing  parameters
replace a word with another 
bash script to read a file from the  with list of files
run a shell script in new terminal from current terminal
bash script to read a file from the  with list of files
use /bin/bash for %x in ruby
parameter won't change in a bash function
parameter won't change in a bash function
understanding $' ' quotes 
how does bash know where my variable names end?
usage function not working as expected
what happens when i execute a unix shell script using a '.' command?
windows command for file size only?
interpret a hudson job as successful even though one of the invoked programs fails
how to use windows  regular expressions
variables from stdin
password hiding 
what happens when i execute a unix shell script using a '.' command?
specific man page for shell built-in commands like 'source'
bash script validations/best practices
bash 'times' call outputs two lines, but it's not documented or is unclear what each line represents
add (collect) exit codes 
zsh: parse error near `\n' when adding aws keys as environment varibles
heroku: upload single unversioned file
how to parse/filter log line with awk or sed
heroku - what happened? `sql` is not a heroku command
get text from response of shell command
strange wc behavior 
how to make this "action-packed, random data" being echoed in a terminal?
ruby script being a pain to run
shell script error expecting "do"
how do i print a binary double array from commandline (unix)
how to print only the hex values from hexdump?
bash script command not found
bash : get the bytes at offset for length
counting the number of fields stored in a variable
counting the number of fields stored in a variable
bash script - safe limits for string from command output
using mercurial, is there an easy way to diff my working copy with the tip file in the default remote repository
how to remove all files with a specific extension from version control?
pretty hg branch graphs
mercurial: check whether last pull/update introduced changes
creating a mercurial log for a specific branch
incremental deploy from a shell script
how to get file create/update time in mercurial?
how to get file create/update time in mercurial?
pretty hg branch graphs
hg log - how to display a date range of revisions in reverse order?
escaping piped output between commands
handling login in an automated backup script
escaping piped output between commands
running command in background using cygwin from windows cmd
running command in background using cygwin from windows cmd
escaping piped output between commands
escaping piped output between commands
bash: how do i concatenate the output of two commands so that i can pipe them to a third?
how can i catch mercurial errors ?
how can i catch mercurial errors ?
creating a windows shortcut (.lnk) to tortoisehg's repository explorer
is there a gitx equivalent for mercurial that allows command-line execution?
can a python script execute a function inside a bash script?
what colorscheme settings control text background colors in vim (terminal version)?
understanding sed hold-space work-flow
how can i get the timestamp of each  in my terminal history?
creat eternal history in tcsh
retrieving  history
most powerful examples of unix commands or scripts every programmer should know
delete terminal history 
retrieving  history
how to load bash command history from file
how do i start a command in a terminal as if i'd opened the terminal and typed the command
how to use user input as history
how do i edit the output of a bash script before executing it?
bash history between two points in time
how to use user input as history
can i use what i wrote on the shell (bash, cmd, irb, etc) in a script automaticaly?
zsh history as array
is there a concise way to get awk to print everything except the first field of a record?
create a histogram or frequency list of most popular commands used  session
zsh: display reverse history number
 statistics 
bash history without line numbers?
how do i select a subset of lines from the history ?
shell command for getting history of a specific command
shell command for getting history of a specific command
getting string from 1d array of chars
how do i make bash history permanent under freebsd?
bash history between two points in time
how to alter the string format of the text between the line number and the history entry in the output of history ?
how to alter the string format of the text between the line number and the history entry in the output of history ?
get bash history to vi
why doesn't "history | vim" work?
why doesn't "history | vim" work?
pattern to ignore 'history numlines' in histignore, bash
linked list insertion in c
how to catch input from python  script
shell script to run hiveql queries
accessing variable from argv
checking if domain is active on server
how to resolve an ip-address on a private lan and get the associated hostname ?
filter out ip using regex and sed
jenkins: setting env variable from shell script
postgresql command execution  script
assign command output to variable
optional argument to replace variable  script
running r script from crontab gives different results than from 
replace html text with a routine
bash: html2text from a string variable not from a file
how do i modify a file in place using shell?
trying to automate htpasswd from 
what is a faster alternative to python's simplehttpserver?
what is a faster alternative to python's simplehttpserver?
managing weekly back ups
lynx - how to delay download process before dump website's content
list of new files downloaded with wget
windows  2 directories up
how to expand all comments on cnn articles?
-bash: ./my_script: /bin/bash^m: bad interpreter: no such file or directory
how to handle vulcan response from bash script
how to use pastebin from shell script?
sed extract link from html page
checking marklogic connection by shell script
issues with using curl 
issues with using curl 
how to assign value of variable with regex (bash)?
where is shellrevealed
bash: unusual line break
how respond to prompts 
script to parse xml and download a file from certain url then transfer it to another computer
how can i make a bash script work correctly when i input an url as an argument
how to restart application in tomcat server
parsing line for string based on whitespace/tabs with bash or python
find & replace a character in filenames from terminal
establishing multiple secure identities with git?
find & replace a character in filenames from terminal
unable to look up https fatal error when push to git repository
bash: how to make a clickable link with query parameters?
awk: process input from pipe, insert result before pattern in output file
how extract text between particular html tag in script
how can i provide stdin to ed, which need a filename?
unexpected token 'done' error in for loop shell scripting
bash - problems assigning variable using counter in variable name
shell script takes a list of commands as input, tries to execute them, and fails
shell script takes a list of commands as input, tries to execute them, and fails
shell script takes a list of commands as input, tries to execute them, and fails
shell script takes a list of commands as input, tries to execute them, and fails
variable substitution in psql \copy
unix cat : no such file or directory error
error when i try to use if in the for loop 
how to assign value to array of string ?
assign value to element of an array inside a loop 
weed out duplicates from a bash array and save to a file
grep error of function
how to batch files ?
errors using getopts on cygwin
can i use sed to rename files with a "running count"?
how to make the input file of my program start from the 3rd line?
how to call command with double and single quotes 
wildcards in kornshell (ksh)
bash script commands executed twice
bash script commands executed twice
python send bash command output by query string
python send bash command output by query string
how to change encoding for existing file with vim
how to read files with different encodings using awk?
how to convert xml file which is in non utf-8 format to xml that is utf-8 compliant
charset conversion from xxx to utf-8, 
using sed to intersperse null bytes
how to do substitutions using sed for windows (from cygwin) for utf16 files
how can i render utf-16be ?
javascriptcore borked strings – character encoding issue
bash: convert non-ascii characters to ascii
convert utf8 to utf16 using iconv
file conversion and removing special characters from a file 
converting ansi to utf-8 shell
grab exit status from id
is there a better way to check to see if user x is a member of group y  on linux without using getent?
bash file - if then-
how do i get the name of the active user via the  in os x?
best (quickest) way to parse and modify a file
get mp3 id3 (v2) tags using id3v2
bash - how to make this always running from system boot and on crash restart?
how to get multiple information using | grep?
set all images to landscape with bash
copy png from each dir, if png is  rightanglebrc 600x600?
how to get iphone name from osx terminal?
launch ie explorer without showing window?
creating an installation bash script with the python csv module
why i always get a syntax error  script
bashrc if: expression syntax error
how to get the paragraph contain the key words s?
parse interfaces from ifconfig
how to format output of ifconfig
bash script to get all ip addresses
parsing data from ifconfig with awk or sed?
efficient way to get your ip address s
bash script to get all ip addresses
, is there any way to find exactly the ip address for all interfaces? and remove all other information's?
how do i find my computer's ip address using the bash shell?
how do i find my computer's ip address using the bash shell?
bash parse ifconfig to get only my ip address
multiple field separators with awk
bash script linux - process output of ifconfig -a output
linux command to replace text in a file with text from redirected output
unexpected output using subprocess in python
unexpected output using subprocess in python
unexpected output using subprocess in python
multiple field separators with awk
multiple field separators with awk
unexpected output using subprocess in python
parsing data from ifconfig with awk or sed?
how to cut ifconfig to get eth* details alone?
how do i find my computer's ip address using the bash shell?
what's the difference between piping elements or specifying them as arguments in a perl one-liner?
terminal command to get just ip address and nothing else
putting ip address into bash variable. is there a better way
retrieve the name of a network interface using an ip address and awk bash
converting a bash command output into json and serving it over http on the fly
linux shell script to remove 2 day old frozen emails from exim queue
put output in the next pipe
taking a screen shot of a specific area on the screen once every second
turn commandline input into an array
running from bash getenv is not defined
can't edit line in python's  
hidden command window, startupinfo and global name 'subprocess' not defined
string comparison with slashes script
running make on a makefile doesn't quite work
running make on a makefile doesn't quite work
why is cuda flummoxed by variable declaration rc?
bash script: how to add a section to a config file?
inserting values from table into different table with python or awk
how to write a shell script that indents all files c/c++ files in the current directory?
how to run a command without sudo?
is it possible to launch ie's proxy settings dialog from the ?
is there a way to look for a flag in a man page?
pattern matching or regex man page /unix?
how to call bash commands from tcl script?
the -d option format of the bash command date
xargs with multiple commands
is there a way to look for a flag in a man page?
is there a way to look for a flag in a man page?
how to tell bash to get gettext .mo file from custom location?
how to tell bash to get gettext .mo file from custom location?
what's the meaning of 'c' in result of command "ls -l /dev/tty'?
cygw and ansi control sequences
how to change keys for info command?
how to periodically check if any file changed and then build
bash scripting variable allocation when using here-document
inotifywait command not detecting files but folders it does
how to use multiple files at once using bash
alert when file content changes
ubuntu: wait for network link up and execute a bash command
how to get recursive directory path using inotify-tools in terminal
how to get recursive directory path using inotify-tools in terminal
how to get know when a file is added to a directory?
tail-like continuous ls (file list)
how to make tail wait for files to be created before tailing them
monitor a folder tree for changes and run a script when a file is created - linux
inotify dynamically index new folders
unix shell script while loop
pass string to shell script when run as command
how to concatenate stdin and a string?
passing an array as  argument  kernel module
bash command to create a new file and its parent directories if necessary
need to call a php script from bash script through eval
simple shell implementation with c , fork causing infinite loop
exam q&a that i don't understand
one minute while loop
 input for two d arrays in java
simple shell implementation with c , fork causing infinite loop
execute a shell command from a shell script without stopping if error occurs
"command not found" with custom run script and xcodebuild
getting iowait with top and awk
parse iostat output
redirecting iostat output to a file
redirecting iostat output to a file
redirecting iostat output to a file
iostat & steal time
how can i fetch the ethernet port given the ip address?
php to shell script to php for a value via passwordless ipv6 ssh tunnel
find ip address of my system for a paticular interface with shell script (bash)
find ip address of my system for a paticular interface with shell script (bash)
how to make this awk command more simple
bash script - sed to return ip address
file comparison between lines and rows
how to find network interface name
unique, persistent, network device information
checking dns via  script
checking dns via  script
bash script to insert ip address into property file
shortest command to calculate the sum of a column of output on unix?
shortest command to calculate the sum of a column of output on unix?
shortest command to calculate the sum of a column of output on unix?
append operator 
how to display bandwidth only in iperf?
how to count connections to a host over a given time period? tcp logs?
blocking webpage in iptable
add total bytes in iptables
how can i skip some elements in a for loop?
storing output of a bash command to database
awk array output
failed to apply firewall rules with iptables-restore
include files in a  with ruby
beginning and end of words in sed and grep
dropbox uploader modification
joining specific parts of text from two files in third?
how do i do this through shell scripting?
how to get text that is printed into console using sybase procedure into shell script
how do i create a new firebird database from the ?
bash shell script to calculate an address in a subnet
get the next word after grep matching
get the next word after grep matching
unable to escape some characters in a unix command
matching strings in a bash case statement and finding the current wireless network
matching strings in a bash case statement and finding the current wireless network
how to multiply two tables 
bash, move file help in variable
installing java with silent install into a directory with spaces
how to zip a file using cmd line?
how to do eclipse's "export jar" from the 
(java) use command prompt to create .jar file from multiple .class files
how to create a jar file on windows?
passing file args in a bash
proper usage of java -d command-line parameters
running java with java_opts env variable
c3p0 configuration shell command
c3p0 configuration shell command
c3p0 configuration shell command
is there a way to get the application directory in java?
java  character encoding
bash: putting a comment  parameters
proper usage of java -d command-line parameters
shell script to stop a java program
test whether a -xx option is supported by java
test whether a -xx option is supported by java
outputting variables? (bash)
outputting variables? (bash)
export weka results on 
-bash: syntax error near unexpected token `('
-bash: syntax error near unexpected token `('
java system.exit return code isn't detected by bash eval
how to include java classes when compiling from ?
classpath format for windows 
java: problem running a jar file 
running a java class from a jar thru a 
running a java class from a jar thru a 
running a java class from a jar thru a 
why this javac: file not found error?
compile files from different directories with javac, referring a depending jar file?
run weka classifiers using windows cmd line
can you run a .class file from terminal that is outputted by an ide
java running a program at command prompt: could not find or load main class
compile files from different directories with javac, referring a depending jar file?
java commands runs on bash, fails on zsh
compile files from different directories with javac, referring a depending jar file?
problem with jdbc when i use jar file and command prompt
how to run netbeans ide java desktop application from 
how to execute multiple java class files inside a jar using bash
passing exclamation point to java program on 
passing exclamation point to java program on 
bash: run another program in the current directory while running from path
using bash, how do you make a classpath out of all files in a directory
strange behaviour : export classpath=$(jars=(./lib/*.jar); ifs=:; echo "${jars leftsquarebrc * rightsquarebrc }")
bash error running groovy-compiled class with java "no such file or directory"
bash error running groovy-compiled class with java "no such file or directory"
run a java program that calls on an external jar
java command-line problems with .jar libraries
running java program from  linux
bash multi input java tester
running java program from  linux
shell script and java parameter
java  errors
why does my ide find the jar but my  doesn't?
how come  isn't recognizing this java command?
java - using a downloaded package without ide
execute java from 
java commandline including .jar
compiling four java files within one package using javac
unable to the linux script for executing a java program
cmd java relative path
compiling four java files within one package using javac
add jar file to buildpath in windows 
add jar file to buildpath in windows 
add jar file to buildpath in windows 
export weka results on 
weka exception: no source has been specified
weka exception: no source has been specified
how to run testng from dos prompt
java command-line problems with .jar libraries
using a jar in a java project?
noclassdeffounderror while running a java program in terminal from ide
unable to execute java in ubuntu terminal
importing external jar files
compiling and running a netbeans gui application line
powershell run java process problem
noclassdeffounderror while running a java program in terminal from ide
launch minecraft from the  python/c++
unexpected token 'done' error in for loop shell scripting
class file not being read
class file not being read
using native libraries 
problems using python subprocess/sh as a bash wrapper
error: could not find or load main class xxx linux
how to run netflix astyanax 
how to assign the output of a java method into a bash script variable
how to assign the output of a java method into a bash script variable
calling java methods from shell scripts
running a java program from the  that depends on a jar file?
running a java program from the  that depends on a jar file?
add jar file to buildpath in windows 
run java project from linux cmd
java compile 
java - classnotfound exception from windows  but not eclipse
java - classnotfound exception from windows  but not eclipse
run from , wrong name error
how to run a java class file from the  that was compiled by eclipse? external jar problems
how to run a java class file from the  that was compiled by eclipse? external jar problems
i can link a .jar on compile time but not on run time
i can link a .jar on compile time but not on run time
i can link a .jar on compile time but not on run time
how to compile and run stanford's karel with the ?
how to compile and run stanford's karel with the ?
how to compile and run stanford's karel with the ?
how to compile and run stanford's karel with the ?
run junit test class inside one-jar with junit outside the jar
problem running .bat file on windows due to "input line is too long"
how to run netbeans ide java desktop application from 
pipe java to grep: why not working?
how to use saxon xpath processor w/o coding in java
build eclipse java project from 
weka from 
replace an xml element's value? sed regular expression?
giving line by line input to stdin
how to execute jar with  arguments
cant run my programme from 
difference variables in quotes (inside the command)
shell command to run a main class from jar
how could my shell script operate on files in a different folder?
build won't complete when launching java from hudson "execute shell"
how do i get java to output to a log when run from a batch?
how do i get java to output to a log when run from a batch?
is it possible to run the eclipse jdt compiler from the , like javac?
eclipse, java & running a project from terminal
java program works on windows but not mac
overwrite property file values if specified in the  arguments
creating a java executable
retrieving last modified file from piped find results
shell script to run jar of any version
command-line tool for converting ttf/otf fonts to svg
how to substitute words in git history & properly debug related problems?
git-filter-branch to remove strings, but where strings contain $ ' \ and other characters
how to install bnd environment to use bnd ?
linux shell script for calling jboss 5x jmx's mbeans
shell script calls jar with arguments - list of filenames treated as one string
run java program by giving it input using file redirection
is it possible to run the eclipse jdt compiler from the , like javac?
unix shell scripting and java jar command
run two java files concurrently
embed a executable binary in a shell script
how to execute a java file by shell script
i can link a .jar on compile time but not on run time
what does  rightanglebrc & do?
how to take jenkins master node offline using cli?
how to take jenkins master node offline using cli?
how to start jenkins on different port rather than 8080 using command prompt in windows?
how to start jenkins on different port rather than 8080 using command prompt in windows?
execute compiled clojurescript from the commandline with rhino
bash run a jar file on all text files in a folder
is it possible to run the eclipse jdt compiler from the , like javac?
java slick  app?
java slick  app?
how could my shell script operate on files in a different folder?
how to pipe this process output to 1) a textfile 2) python script
how to pipe this process output to 1) a textfile 2) python script
how to pipe this process output to 1) a textfile 2) python script
how to pipe this process output to 1) a textfile 2) python script
cant run my programme from 
search entire file tree terminal
search entire file tree terminal
heredoc for java from bash 
escape an asterisk as a java  argument 
escape an asterisk as a java  argument 
escape an asterisk as a java  argument 
escape an asterisk as a java  argument 
bash talking to a sub-process of java?
executing a .class from a java file with java commands in it
make java program return value to calling shell script
make java program return value to calling shell script
make java program return value to calling shell script
java  angle brackets
passing a space-separated system property via a shell
redirect output to rolling file
compiling java file and passing file to stdin gives error
-bash: !": event not found when trying to run java program
 arguments containing &&
how to compile multiple class files in java on linux shell?
running java in package from 
how to print an error message to standard error?
java program works on windows but not mac
how to redirect a file as an input to java program with bash?
 parameter is being ignored
using a jar in a java project?
return java system exit value to bash script
how to pass commandline argument include "|" to java program
calling java methods from shell scripts
java  execution relative to packaging
pass all arguments from bash script to another command
redirect stdout to script, so it can be parsed and then sent to stdout
how to write a wrapper shell script for a java program in this case
getting the pid of a process present at the start of pipe
can't run multiple-class program from  using packages
how to provide path to a class in java ?
how to import linux command  file as  the value of a variable ?
clean build java 
java code not compiling with 'javac' but compiles in eclipse
how to compile multiple class files in java on linux shell?
easy  java compile
easy  java compile
create .class files from the  with package dependencies
compiling a servlet in ubuntu returns errors
compiling/running java files in terminal
compiling/running java files in terminal
java - using a downloaded package without ide
java - using a downloaded package without ide
execute java from 
compile a java file that depends on a jar file
informing java where to import from (lib)
compiling java from the 
informing java where to import from (lib)
why does my ide find the jar but my  doesn't?
adding multiple jars to classpath on commandline
adding multiple jars to classpath on commandline
importing external jar files
guidance sought over project structure, and java  usage
why this javac: file not found error?
java: compiling and running multiple packages from the command-line
compiling .java files from the  - external libraries, classpath
compiling four java files within one package using javac
javac -cp : cannot find symbol
command works in interactive shell but not shell script
bash - argument not working
how to reverse  compilation error output?
compiling multiple packages using the  in java
javac cannot find jar for apache commons config
clean build java 
error: could not find or load main class xxx linux
java program works from the ide but not the 
trying to capture javac output 
how to save terminal output automatically 
calling a java executable 
compiling four java files within one package using javac
get jni signature for methods of nested classes
get jni signature for methods of nested classes
how to view annotation of java classfile via ?
pipe output to bash function
compile and build with single  java (linux)
bash can't find an existing file
bash can't find an existing file
how to run the script as root in jenkins?
how to become a jenkins user?
how to become a jenkins user?
how to run two commands simultaneously ?
how to run two commands simultaneously ?
rename jpg files according to date created
jira home config
warning in jmeter log
jmeter  output
what is wrong with this shell script line?
error in attempting to parallel task of a bash script
batch job submission upon completion of job
php script stops working suddenly without reason
bash: assigning output of command substitution to an integer variable
how to kill all asynchronous processes
changing default shell to our own written shell 
how can i pipe multiple arguments into a unix command?
how can i pipe multiple arguments into a unix command?
gunzip with mkfifo 
awk command to merge the content of the same file
bash: merging and sorting files
substitute string for line in command result bash
appending matching strings to specific lines (sed/bash)
compare two files  using join
find the similarities between two files
identify overlapping ranges in awk
join with key multiple files
join with key multiple files
awk-sed joining of 3 tables with one nearly identical column... surely easier than python
awk-sed joining of 3 tables with one nearly identical column... surely easier than python
comparing two unsorted files
using awk to combine two table to create a new result
comparing two files and get the matched line from second file
bash merge files by matching columns
matching values from columns from two files, need to speed things up dramatically
using bash script to compare two files and write new file
join columns but print all lines in both files
linux combine two different text files
combine two lists with a join on a column
unix - compare two files and align them line by line
merge/join two tables fast linux 
merge/join two tables fast linux 
search / replace using key:values from file ?
replacing a specific column of a file with the column of another file using sed 
the simplest way to join 2 files using bash and both of their keys appear in the result
merge/join two tables fast linux 
keep the content of a text with specific same columns 
keep the content of a text with specific same columns 
add column to file from another file where id's match
add column to file from another file where id's match
change awk command to "grep -v"
add column to file from another file where id's match
how can i combine files based on a common field?
inner join on two text files
shell script - copy lines from file by key
comparing two files using shell script
add two variables in one line and save them in a text file
comparing two files using bash script
comparing two files using bash script
check list of email addresses against other list
comparing 2 large unsorted csv files based on 2 columns
compare two files with awk or sed
differences/merging two files
left outer join by comparing 2 files
fastest way of finding differences between two files ?
detect if a series of numbers is sequential /awk
differences/merging two files
merging two files into one based on the first column
join multiple files
how to merge two file with awk?
join 3 files by first column with join (was awk)?
 how to join 2 files
printing table of rows specified by another file
differences/merging two files
add json value in correct section
jq - parsing data
parsing json while executing a curl
how do i convert a json object to key=value format in jq
change json file by bash script
parsing json array: 'paste'  variables?
parsing json array: 'paste'  variables?
how to count items in json object using ?
read the json data 
using jq to parse json output of aws cli
reading json data in a shell script
reading json data in a shell script
change json file by bash script
select nth element from multidimensional json array with jq
jq conditional output
neo4j 1.9.4 windows installer- where did the shell go?
reading error messages 
executing a shell script in python from the json document
how to execute shell script from the python?
jython 2.7 beta 1 under msys
bash- syntax error: operand expected
how do i append all files in current and subdirs as command arguments?
how do i append all files in current and subdirs as command arguments?
how do i append all files in current and subdirs as command arguments?
replace 4th column from the last and also pick unique value from 3rd column at the same time
activating kde 4 notifications from bash scripts
pass argument starting with minus sign to shell command
how do i run launch kdiff3 as a background process so it accepts two clearcase version controlled files as parameters?
executing a bash script upon file creation
first variable is overwrited by the second variable 
how to sort by hh:mm:ss.xx in ksh in aix 5.3?
how do i generate an android debug.keystore from the command-line?
bourne shell: convert ~/desktop to /users/me/desktop
bourne shell: convert ~/desktop to /users/me/desktop
how to enter a second parameter on the same  on windows vista?
how to get sha1 fingerprints from p12 certificate?
bourne script: redirect success messages but not error messages
using awk or sed 
how does trap / kill work  on linux?
linux: kill background task
killing a process using sh and bash
prevent process from killing itself using pkill
running a few commands from bash script
find and kill a process in one line using bash and regex
bash: how to check if a process id (pid) exists
how to terminate script's process tree in cygw from bash script
terminating infinite loop with piped command in scope
how does trap / kill work  on linux?
how do i know whether bash kill will use a pid or a jobspec?
is there a shell command that will kill all background tail processes
kill bash and child process
bash: how to check if a process id (pid) exists
possible for git to commit automatically when file changes?
how to convert a cron to a daemon
custom shell script to kill uwsgi by pid
custom shell script to kill uwsgi by pid
bash: kill $$ not work?
how to get variable from text file into bash variable
bash script for killing processes with a certain name
bash script for killing processes with a certain name
why child process still alive after parent process was killed ?
how to get the process id to kill a nohup process?
stop java file running in ssh
shell script to kill process with highest pid
killing previous instances at first time,if running
bash: send sigtstp signal (ctrl+z)
my custom init shell script stops deployment script
how to have chef reload global path
shell script - store output of "kill -hup 1234" (gunicorn command) to variable and check if the variable contains "no such process"
exit function stack without exiting shell
simulate a crashing bash script
how to replicate ctrl+c in a shell script?
equivalent of ctrl c in command to cancel a program
bash: kill $$ not work?
how to use kill sigusr2 ?
how to stop infinite loop  script gracefully?
bash: send sigtstp signal (ctrl+z)
simulate a crashing bash script
how do i force-quit git bash on windows? :s
echoing a command, then running it - fails on piped commands?
suspending a process  running inside console2
how to kill a process i ran from a disconnected ssh
timing traps in a shell script
how to find/kill a specific python program
how to give arguments to kill via pipe
redirecting the output of ps command,getting process id and killing that process using shell script
kill random process with name
stop meteor through a shell command
how can i search case insensitive in pgrep?
using awk to capture first line of a multiline output?
kill all relevant processes in a php script 
how to kill a single background process 
killing processes shell
how to terminates a process with all termination signals ignored?
running linux executables from linux shell scripts
using killall to terminate bash
restarting dropbox-daemon if running
restarting dropbox-daemon if running
restarting dropbox-daemon if running
how to kill a process i ran from a disconnected ssh
double-click shell script issues (.command on mac)
macosx/windows kill all processes residing in specified directory
restarting dropbox-daemon if running
how to set the process name of a shell script?
how to make a bash script that creates 40 simultaneous instances of a program?
killing processes shell
ftp file transfers using piping safely
stop ssh service at specific port
print field into terminal command
how to extract filename from path using sed or awk
 to open a window
how can i pipe the output of curl to bc?
bash piping issue
using script to automatically start program when the system boot up (linux, shell)
how to return values to korn shell from python?
running shell scripts with ./ dot-slash
executing a command in a kornshell script
why does sunos say it can't execute this kornshell script?
klocwork 9.6 ignore specific checkers only in specified files
klocwork 9.6 ignore specific checkers only in specified files
klocwork 9.6 ignore specific checkers only in specified files
klocwork 9.6 ignore specific checkers only in specified files
remove links from text
remove links from text
what is your single most favorite command-line trick using bash?
what codec do i need to convert .wav to .mp3 with ffmpeg?
lame - overwrite existing files
lame - overwrite existing files
mac's "say" command to mp3
create a silent mp3 from the 
trouble passing multi-word argument from bash to expect
run a bash script automatically upon login
last users connected to the system
how to print out specific username by using "last" command?
extract ip address from variable string
extract ip address from variable string
how can i set up an alias for "git last" that accepts a number as an argument?
using awk to print login stats to a file
using awk to print login stats to a file
grab frequent username from 'last' command  - with exceptions
store output in variable & use variable in command
store output in variable & use variable in command
get current user on root script ubuntu
no output from script
catch error from lastlog (unix & bash)
submitting a program to launchctl with arguments not working correctly
validating that a string contains only ascii characters and digits
handle double quotes  script
ldapadd/modify a single entry
awk/sed - why my script won't work finding substring between two keywords
awk/sed - why my script won't work finding substring between two keywords
compile with c++ & mysql on debian using mingw32
compile with c++ & mysql on debian using mingw32
input file taken from a cmd line return value
highlighting python stack traces
how to deal with colons ":" in filename 
use a preset vim colorscheme  (mac osx)
why doesn't this bash expr command work?
bash script error let: -: syntax error: operand expected (error token is "-")
bash script error let: -: syntax error: operand expected (error token is "-")
incremental number  on each loop
addition assignment 
bash arithmetic expressions
bash set -e and i=0;let i++ do not agree
add integers as strings to a variable bash
bmi calculator 
set runtimepath, adding a directory from an expression in vim?
set runtimepath, adding a directory from an expression in vim?
how to quickly change directores in vim?
linux: write to stdin of python interpreter process and have that process evaluate input as code
stop a reading when read = 0
how does logical operators behave?
finding number of child processes
extracting numbers from file
how to do exponentiation 
simple while loop 
unix: how to run a program with a file as an input
what do backticked options mean?
unix command to convert xls file into xlsx file?
bash: standard output puzzle
strip html tags from libreoffice  conversion
generate a core dump 
how to insert a line in a file between two blocks of known lines (if not already inserted previously), using bash?
extract different lines from files using bash
ruby execute shell command and get array
bash script iterating files in a directory goes into infinite loop
redirect java output with bash script (liquibase)
redirect java output with bash script (liquibase)
redirect java output with bash script (liquibase)
why pipe resets current working directory?
nicer one-liner for exiting bash script with error message
how to use multiple commands after || 
c program: create linked list using argv, argc, segmentation fault
picking a random line from stdout
unix bash - refer to internal function and pass parameters
pipe to command that does not accept piping
perl - print substituted string on  only if substitution occured
perl - print substituted string on  only if substitution occured
perl - print substituted string on  only if substitution occured
perl - print substituted string on  only if substitution occured
how to determine whether a given linux is 32 bit or 64 bit?
extra copy of new rsync files
removing a file and symbolic linking in a single step
linking nginx config with installing
linking nginx config with installing
creating a symbolic link in a bash script in a different folder
use/add shell script to msysgit
how to add in space escape for $pwd
how to add in space escape for $pwd
how to add in space escape for $pwd
convert relative symbolic links to absolute symbolic links
makefile : foreach error
bash is symlinking to working directory instead of specified directory
creating soft links with the same name as the target file
problems using subl command in terminal: "command not found" & "no such file or directory"
git: custom editor opens blank file
sublime text 3 and terminal prompt for os x mavericks?
sublime text 3 and terminal prompt for os x mavericks?
how do i create a symbolic link to mysql? (mac, xampp)
git_ps1_showupstream not displaying information
how to create a link with an absolute path ?
issues on using svn to check out code from 
run ruby script without invoking it directly
how can i shorten a path in red hat linux?
how to create a link to a directory
how to determine if sym link exists
starting jenkins bash: /usr/bin/java: no such file or directory
set target folder in a shell script
yiic.php works but not yiic in ubuntu
packer and post-install scripts
how could i copy a directory somewhere else (perhaps temp) and ensure it stays in sync with the original?
reload xinitrc without restarting xorg
symlink broken right after creation
symbolic links to symbolic links... partial canonicalization
symlinking folders 
create a minimal symlink
symlink broken right after creation
script for creating links
bash script to safely create symlinks?
replace important symbolic link ‘safely’
symlinks not working when link is made in another directory?
ln command creates broken links
running a python script like a built- command
symlink broken right after creation
how to create a symlink to open a directory in terminal on mac osx?
syncing dot files with dropbox
using bash to automate dotfiles
creating a hardlink to a file contained in one subdirectory into another subdirectory
how to create a link to a directory
how to parse an arbitrary text file using only the mysql  client?
why cant i redirect the output from sed to a file
bash - how to declare a local integer?
updated values in global variable is lost 
outputting array with elements containing spaces
bash: join elements of an array?
build a string  with newlines
how to check if a line has the right syntax like this?
getopts won't call twice in a row?
trying to create a bash function
how the local variable get the parameter values of this bash shell function?
set values to elements of an array in a function
recursive function shell script
i just want list my *.lua file and luac it to *.ttt
using awk with escape characters inside a bash script
zsh `rvm-prompt` on rhs prompt not refreshing
exit code of command substitution  local variable assignment
explanation of convertor of cidr to netmask  netmask2cdir and cdir2netmask
convert xlsx to text csv via  only on linux
how do i change a shell scripts character encoding?
in osx lion, lang is not set to utf8, how fix?
comparing strings according to dictionry appearnce order 
comparing strings according to dictionry appearnce order 
bash - how to check if a specific locale is enabled?
what is the most robust way to determine the current codepage from a shell script?
locate behavior with bash wildcards
bash locate command with pattern
bash locate command with pattern
how view 1000 line when use command on linux
bash locate command with pattern
bash locate command with pattern
bash locate command with pattern
why does "locate filename | xargs vim" cause strange terminal behaviour?
shell command meaning(backslash and grep)
xdg-open doesn't work when another command's output is piped to it
executing for-each 
scp locate's output by xargs
scp locate's output by xargs
bash locate command with pattern
sqlldr not found when using sql*loader in a shell script
how can i find my alias for `git log`?
how to save the command you are about to execute ?
append the output as new line 
open file  script
how to get max number from a file  bash shell scripts
bash function: syntax error near unexpected token `'2''
awk: cannot concatenate strings
script not logging to log file. why?
taking logcat and kernel logs simultaneously
taking logcat and kernel logs simultaneously
how to read a file content from multiple compressed files without decompressing the folder?
sending stderr to logger
how do you write a .txt file`s contents into syslog on a mac?
howto: using syslog for user created shell script
bash script -- logname validation
add a publickey to server for scp
what is ./lks.sh: permission denied  when running a shell script?
what is ./lks.sh: permission denied  when running a shell script?
execute command on the same line multiple times with sed
referencing bash jobs in other jobs
is shell scripts execution synchronous?
fast alternative to grep -f
printing a series of images to exact dimensions
how to escape an @ sign in the password field of an smb:// url
how to escape an @ sign in the password field of an smb:// url
how to escape an @ sign in the password field of an smb:// url
linqpad (lprun) command script to create csv file
bash file descriptor leak
automatically recreate a lot of different links to renamed directories or files
automatically recreate a lot of different links to renamed directories or files
sh command: exec 2 rightanglebrc &1
sh command: exec 2 rightanglebrc &1
how to redirect complete output of a script
how to redirect complete output of a script
get the newest file based on timestamp
how to send list of file in a folder to a txt file 
redirecting the output of a child process
linux command not working
unexpected output from cat `bash` command
bash overfill terminal
generate file that contains a list of all files in a directory on linux
how to assign pipeline result to a variable 
i/o redirection differences between zsh and bash
eval not working  makefile
why are mixed-case filenames returned when using bash set construct wildcard?
range  file-pattern and case-sensitivity
list only numeric file names in directory
get confused about square brackets 
is there a way to 'inject' a  output into another command?
pattern is not matching 
how to find the directory a device is mounted to?
assigning pipeline result in a variable
'ls $variable' does not list folder contents
command-line variable assignments in cygw not working?
why does ls "~/music/itunes/itunes media/audiobooks" fail?
sanitize user input  for security purposes
is it feasible to store a string which includes a space to the variable ?
how to list directory with same string in its name ?
how to avoid a bash script from failing when -e option is set?
how to avoid a bash script from failing when -e option is set?
how to avoid a bash script from failing when -e option is set?
how to avoid a bash script from failing when -e option is set?
how to avoid a bash script from failing when -e option is set?
path of file from home folder
variable expansion is different in zsh from that 
bash: put list files into a variable and but size of array is 1
bash script command not found
convert xargs bash command to powershell?
custom unix command combination assigning to variable
regex inside braces (curly brackets) -- gnu parallel / xargs / find
regex inside braces (curly brackets) -- gnu parallel / xargs / find
regex inside braces (curly brackets) -- gnu parallel / xargs / find
regular expression: extract and move a pattern within a string
regular expression: extract and move a pattern within a string
how do i change the order in which grep looks at files/prints results?
`find -name` pattern that matches multiple patterns
using regex or something else for searching for a file extension
bash pattern matching
using regex or something else for searching for a file extension
, if i have a bunch of text files is there a simple script to merge them into one file?
unix: merge many files, while deleting first line of all files
bash: how to loop all files in sorted order
bash script to run newest version of a file?
move all files of certain file type using svn
resize a list of images in line command
how to use convert command in mass, one clean regular expression sweep?
grouping files based on their filename and keeping only one out of the group?
grep last n matches across files
bash - redirect ls into custom script
format lines using shell scripts
rename file in a directory using shell
opening solution file in cygwin / bash
how can i extract a long list of tarballs via stdin?
how do i use pipe several times?
a bash riddle concerning stream redirection: `cat x  rightanglebrc  y  leftanglebrc `
 using shell to rename multiple files
 using shell to rename multiple files
how can you diff two pipelines ?
copy after grep 
create folder for zip file and extract to it
how to use ls to list out files that end in numbers
wildcard expansion - searching for one in a set of possibilities
, what's the regular expression to list two types of files?
how to splice two sources of data (or append an argument to a dynamic argument list)?
how can you open files which contain the word "exam" in terminal?
bash file name completion
how can i remove a single file from the output of grep by index on unix?
how can i remove a single file from the output of grep by index on unix?
how can i remove a single file from the output of grep by index on unix?
sort results from find and grab subset (bash)
how to use wildcard with files which names start with '-'?
how to get color and formatting data from command in not interactive shell
how to get color and formatting data from command in not interactive shell
grep on colored lines
batch rename directories in reverse order
batch rename directories in reverse order
execute command for every file in the current dir
bash syntax for if thens
ordering  "for" loop
"tailing" a binary file based on string location using bash?
getting different output files
sort files numerically 
what is causing these whitespace problems on mac os x bash?
how to format the output of ls?
shell script: count number of files in a particular type extension in single folder
change file names in a folder using terminal
change file names in a folder using terminal
print a specific letter of "ls -1" command  leftsquarebrc bash, sed, awk, grep rightsquarebrc 
shell script to find files with similar names
bash script list files from given user
is it safe to use "ls" in for loop 
safely find files matching pattern and literals
how can i alias -- rightanglebrc  "less" the latest file in a directory?
how to generate manifest (list of files with their sizes and count) for a folder 
how to generate manifest (list of files with their sizes and count) for a folder 
how to generate manifest (list of files with their sizes and count) for a folder 
latest edited file in a given list shell
linux: cat matching files in date order?
how to tail the last line of multiple files using "tail -1 */filename"
using wildcards and grep
tar extracting most recent file
why 'wait' doesn't wait for detached jobs
unix shell script to sort files depending on the 'date string' present in their file name
how to list all files and put number in front of them , using shell
bash: process substitution, paste and echo
for loop to iterate over lines in string
does "grep" have maximum of files it can handle?
how to make a pipe loop in zsh?
to delete the common files from two folders
xargs to execute a string - what am i doing wrong?
invoke grep from a shell script and keep the colored patterns
remove files when name does not contain some words
shell script: count number of files in a particular type extension in single folder
how to fetch certain filenames using grep?
unable to use multiple outputs in zsh without tee
how to list all files and put number in front of them , using shell
using ls, how can i list files without file extension (the part after the dot)?
sed file remove leading text
extract filename up to first dash
how to sort files numerically from linux 
script for getting extensions of a file
how to make a pipe loop in zsh?
joining multiple lines into one with bash
count number of files generated from split command
how to apply shell command to each line of a command output?
deleting all directories in a given folder 
how to show the hidden files and hide the shown files with ls?
linux command most recent non soft link file
linux command most recent non soft link file
linux: most recent file in a directory
bash script returning "not found" error
pass a variable value in crontab
multiple field and numeric sort
bash find, exclude parent?
what does the command "cat /tmp/dir/:0" do?
list all executables in the cwd with grep
linux: most recent file in a directory, excluding directories and . files
list all executables in the cwd with grep
if i wanted to do ls on files would this suffice?
bash script to delete all but n files when sorted alphabetically
script to take files names add double quotes and convert to pdf
writing to an excel sheet using bash
list files by last edited date
linux command: directory inside a directory
display multiple files /unix
how to list specific type of files in recursive directories ?
bash command to open largest file
how to selectively not use aliases defined in .bashrc
how to create a hidden file 
bash script to list specific file types and write to file?
list the content of the last 5 hidden directories
ls to find all directories that begin with ./
shell redirection i/o order
use grep to list the files a directory that were changed less that 10 hours ago
printing hidden files and directories using awk
printing hidden files and directories using awk
how to use ls to find files for a specific set of dates 
list all files with file count as one of the output columns in $bash?
list all files with file count as one of the output columns in $bash?
list only numeric file names in directory
how to get a list of folders that i can remove?
how to get a particular word from a particular line from the output of unix command ?
why is `ls -al & ; ls -al` invalid?
linux sorting "ls -al" output by date
redirect stdin and stdout using tee and keep previous std
create linux environment in c using execl and fork()
delete all but the 4 newest directories
how to change ls -a in terminal
improved technique to store a filename in a variable?
linux : how to delete multiple file same extension but keep newest one
ignore folder and its files from search results
ls: cannot access file : no such file or directory
pipe ls output to get path of all directories
regex for finding date dir
regex for finding date dir
make alias for ls so that it doesn't show files of the pattern *~
how to grep only specified folder names
delete files with specific string in the filename
how to find the latest folder in a directory and then make a full path accordingly?
inserting a string stored in variable to a command ?
how to list only the dot files and dot folder names (without the content in them)
unable to convert dot-files to non-dotfiles safely
launch firefox portable on mac with a shell script
how does argument order work in a bash shell script?
how does argument order work in a bash shell script?
list all files not starting with a number
pipe ls output to get path of all directories
identify directory named for the most recent date
how to list only the dot files and dot folder names (without the content in them)
how to list only the dot files and dot folder names (without the content in them)
identify directory named for the most recent date
how to `ls` only one level deep?
regex for finding date dir
regex for finding date dir
why do i get permission denied to rmdir a directory created by ditto on osx?
bash ls a folder through a variable
bash script rm cannot delete folder created by php mkdir
are both stderror and stdout printed on the screen?
contradicting redirected data shell
generate file that contains a list of all files in a directory on linux
bash command substitution stdout+stderr redirect
difference between reverse apostrophe and eval
linux grep command with complex delimiter
difference between reverse apostrophe and eval
unable to add element to array 
iterating over each line of ls -l output
realizing recognition of files/directories 
print permissions from file arguments  script
print permissions from file arguments  script
how to format the output of ls?
preserve ls colouring after grep'ing
how to color ls - l command's columns
how to make ls | less colorful?
ls -l with some modifications
ls -l with some modifications
bash ls; output a time of modification of files including year and seconds
isolating content with bashscript
how to use stat command inside awk
comments amongst parameters 
ls with symbolic link source
how to redirect output to a file and stdout
how do i find all of the symlinks in a directory tree?
how do you get the total size of all files of a certain type within a directory ?
terminal command / script to show files by their type and size
how sort find result by file sizes
how sort find result by file sizes
linux bash script to tell me the type of a file
using cmp to check for transferring files not working
what is the use of running shell script like "$ ls -la | script.sh"?
how to list running screen sessions?
linux terminal - tar: file not found. skipping files?
linux awk string exec variable
linux terminal - tar: file not found. skipping files?
how to list recent n files ?
why bash+awk script produces error?
unix bash - refer to internal function and pass parameters
linux bash script to tell me the type of a file
shell script filter question
how to get nth column with regexp delimiter
how to move multiple files with whitespace on linux
how to move multiple files with whitespace on linux
pipe to less -s without clearing the output from the  history
pipe to less -s without clearing the output from the  history
trouble formulating a regular expression for use with sed to extract column values
trouble formulating a regular expression for use with sed to extract column values
trouble formulating a regular expression for use with sed to extract column values
trouble formulating a regular expression for use with sed to extract column values
trouble formulating a regular expression for use with sed to extract column values
how to get nth column with regexp delimiter
trouble formulating a regular expression for use with sed to extract column values
how to get nth column with regexp delimiter
bash pattern for dot-started directories excluding . and
how can i count the secret files in a directory using a shell script?
parsing functionality 
passing output from one command as argument to another
how to remove a file named "?" ?
bash: remove all but last 10 log files
how can i reduce one of the pipe in the following awk statement
create a script rotating backup on remote disk
finding executable files using ls and grep
sort files by last edited after finding them in a specific directory?
how to copy the top 10 most recent files from one directory to another?
is there a bash equivalent to zsh's file-type globbing?
extracting filename & modification time from ls output
need help in ls -ltr linux bash
passing parameter to bash shell script through input redirection ( leftanglebrc )
unix command to list few latest files
unix command to list few latest files
linux shell - string manipulation then calculating age of file in minutes
unix command to list few latest files
shebang groovy giving error
check previous step  run trough cron
can't save console output as ruby variable
execution results are different when i'm executing bash script directly and through sh
setting an environment variable in csh
can i only show stdout/stderr in case of a trapped error ?
list of file owners in folder on linux
shell script sum in for loop not working
display only files and folders that are symbolic links in tcsh or bash
can't save console output as ruby variable
how to print files except certain files 
how can i search for a specific string after an ls command
grep ls output across tabs
why i got an 'en' include file while using awk to search for 'em' regex keyword?
get column data from each line of output from ls -l
unix: using awk commands to filter lists?
simple bash script using "set" command
cutting the column including size
writing a shell script to obtain entries that contain a certain amount of integers?
writing a shell script to obtain entries that contain a certain amount of integers?
how to get list of file names and their sentence containing a specific search string?
how can i concatenate {}* (star) to xargs and have it refer to it as the special character and not plain character?
how to pass several shell variables to awk ?
remove permissions from long output of ls w/ sed?
remove permissions from long output of ls w/ sed?
"for loop" and $() combination limitation
exec() any command in c
why bc and args doesn't work together in one line?
why bc and args doesn't work together in one line?
command not found when using sudo
bash: total size of file in current directory matching regular expression
errors executing bash command  variable
printing out names of only directories and not files (bash)
print permissions from file arguments  script
diff between a pipe and a filter?
is there a bash command which counts files?
print command result side by side?
grep filename leftsquarebrc asterisk rightsquarebrc  returns unexpected result
shell/bash command to get nth line of stdout
shell/bash command to get nth line of stdout
shell/bash command to get nth line of stdout
get the second last line from shell pipeline
remove permissions from long output of ls w/ sed?
select fields with sed
bash /  number of bytes
what expands to all files in current directory recursively?
reuse or repeat pipe input as arguments in command (example given)
how to list directory with same string in its name ?
sed with filename from pipe
find file and send it to ftp
find file and send it to ftp
linux: most recent file in a directory, excluding directories and . files
bash/ echo and pattern
bash/ echo and pattern
linux shell get name of file
windows  get folder size
what is the powershell equivalent to this bash command?
how can we find the number of blocks occupied by a file from userspace
find specific string in subdirectories and order top directories by modification date
shell script to compress a list of files
remove oldest file in repository
using one from the "grep" family. how do i get the lines i omitting the search term?
how to copy only the newest sub directory to a destination linux shell script
sorting file list aix one liner
get the newest directory  to a variables
rm except last 5 files bash
how to copy the latest file from local machine to server using bash script?
clearing archive files  bash script
how do i get the name of the newest file via the terminal?
bash function to find newest file matching pattern
how to rsync rsnapshots and avoid all the daily.0, daily.1 etc
scp the three newest files using bash
scp the three newest files using bash
how do i get the name of the newest file via the terminal?
linux: how to get the second latest file in a folder
delete all but the most recent x files 
delete all but the most recent x files 
shell script to count files, then remove oldest files
bash: how to loop all files in sorted order
shell script to sort file list naturally (non-alphanumerically) with added difficulties
concatenating text files 
how can i select the filename with the highest version number?
how to compare to directory names and enter the one that is the highest version
how to order a ls output by suffix?
 leftanglebrc  operator , passing to perl script
check android developer tools version 
looping through files bash script
bash, search for usb storage devices. output location
bash, search for usb storage devices. output location
copy files to my usb only 
bash - how to remove trailing "/bin/java" ?
how can i non-recursively migrate directories with perl or shell?
explain this bash script
ls first file of given type from given directory
pc command for open files count per process
parse interfaces from ifconfig
bash: variable in file path
bash: variable in file path
command-line variable assignments in cygw not working?
file execution with dot space versus dot slash
problems with wildcards in scripts
extract arguments from stdout and pipe
finding all commands excluding "."
screen bash scripting for cronjob
regex move and change filename
kornshell variable definition: what is ?foo?
list files which have 'c' as second letter (linux)
convert xargs bash command to powershell?
convert xargs bash command to powershell?
match first few letters of a file name : shell script
bash script - check if a file exists
using sed to mass rename files
how to rename files using zsh shell and `sed` command on mac osx
how to rename files using zsh shell and `sed` command on mac osx
how to rename files using zsh shell and `sed` command on mac osx
numeric range in tcsh
bash continu on error
read commands from text file and run it in qshell
how to tell how many files match description with * 
how to increment the number in the filename
how to increment the number in the filename
extract substring from ls
get the newest file based on timestamp
get the newest file based on timestamp
how to put the output of command  variable
systax error in awk with only sub() and print() functions
systax error in awk with only sub() and print() functions
systax error in awk with only sub() and print() functions
awk - how to improve this example
awk - how to improve this example
use double quote in grep to match end of line
using the result of a command as an argument ?
list 1 to 20 file names with pattern 
list 1 to 20 file names with pattern 
list 1 to 20 file names with pattern 
getting items on the local clipboard from a remote ssh session
shell scripting - how to get all files with a common name, and order those files
i/o redirection differences between zsh and bash
truncate output 
what is the best, python or bash for selectively concatenating lots of files?
bash and sort files in order
can i pipe part of my bash scripts output to a file? can i pipe to a file and stdout?
finding the latest file from directory with creation date as suffix
how to take advantage of filters
access to last command in zsh (not previous )
cannot replace spaces using bash variable expansion
need explanations  bash builtin exec command behavior
extract numbers from filename
how to find  and delete directories that not match a name? !#bash
how to find  and delete directories that not match a name? !#bash
split a file into half depending upon its number of lines
bash true numerical order
csv - grep a particular pattern, print first match and the first line of that file
looping through lines in csv file with bash
kornshell (ksh) listing/sorting files
run 4 concurrent instances of a python script on a folder of data files
how do i insert a new line before concatenating?
how to view a list of txt file in a folder?
bash continu on error
moving things in terminal based on their name
regular expression to not match file two file types 
how to grep .txt .tar.gz .py file once
how to archive files under certain dir that are not text files ?
rename folders with case-sensitive names
bash shell `if` command returns something `then` do something
how to put all folders that do not have 'aaa' or 'bbb' in name into a zip file ? linux
shell command that cycles through lines?
os x bash list files excluding items from input file
how to archive files under certain dir that are not text files ?
why doesnt rm doesnt work as i expect here?
listing files in a directory that do not end with vxxx
list files not matching a pattern?
linux cmd to remove all files not ending with certain formats
how do i find all files that do not begin with a given prefix ?
how to skip the files in the specific patteren in a folder
, how to delete all files in a directory except one or two
using regex  to find files
terminal command / script to show files by their type and size
terminal command / script to show files by their type and size
how to pipe commands in ubuntu
bash file name completion
easy shell solution to execute a command for each line of stdout
ls: grep files with name pattern into one line
bash : piping to eog
bash: limit output of ls and grep
string comparison  with an or condition
move latest version -only- of ios apps files from "mobile applications" folder to a new folder
running command within test statement 
sorting files in a directory based on numerical index within file-names
bash overfill terminal
listing files 100 per each press 
listing files 100 per each press 
linux command to remove leading zeros from a file name
how to move multiple files with whitespace on linux
shell script/command to rename files to their crc32 values?
shell script to compress a list of files
how to delete multiple files according to the content in ubuntu
move files x per folder
gnu parallel with sed wrong arguement as file
passing filename and file content arguments to perl script with gnu parallel
how do i capture bash output to the mac os x clipboard?
convert bash `ls` output to json array
pipe ls output to one line perl script
using the result of a command as an argument ?
using the result of a command as an argument ?
appending ruby partial w(' leftanglebrc %= characters) to end of file with sed
extract numbers from filename
unix command - ignore "the" while sorting
listing directory's names with given arguments
moving things in terminal based on their name
moving things in terminal based on their name
moving things in terminal based on their name
how to execute the output of a command within the current shell?
looping through files in different directories
how to use sort and copy commands with pipes concept?
how to sort files in a folder using bash?
how to list files  using `ls` as they are listed in the corresponding folder
how to list files  using `ls` as they are listed in the corresponding folder
get the newest file based on timestamp
get the newest file based on timestamp
, how to copy all the files not starting with a given string?
bash: bad array subscript
how to get paginated files from directory?
replace a string in all files - unix
redirect command output into variable and standard output in ksh
how to show command output in stdout and also transfer it to pipe
command output redirect to file and terminal
two redirection operators in one command
bash standard output display and redirection at the same time
how to find and replace these html sentences using grep and perl/sed
shell: get a list of latest files by filename
what should a longtime windows user know when starting to use linux?
difference among | and ; and &
resize a list of images in line command
how to write loop  that will break on ctrl+c?
how to sort multiple files? unix
bash shell scripting: how to group argument list into n items?
xargs failed to run one script in sub-folder
xargs failed to run one script in sub-folder
passing  arguments from xargs
how do i pass a list of values to xargs as a single argument list?
how to take advantage of filters
delete file other than particular extension file format
confused by output using xargs
multiple possible values for variable 
how to match more than one word 
why does ls "~/music/itunes/itunes media/audiobooks" fail?
bash convert w/ copying filename
if condition giving error  when checking two strings
how to order a ls output by suffix?
shell redirection i/o order
are there uses for ' rightanglebrc &0' (redirect to stdin)?
removing a particular line from shell output
'lsb_release -a' prints an additional line while using it  script
correctly finding disk size on hosts on mixed setup of hosts
redirect lsof exit code into variable
redirect lsof exit code into variable
how to extract exact data from a file?
using lsof to get a list of file names
using lsof to get a list of file names
most powerful examples of unix commands or scripts every programmer should know
how do i find a process and kill it in a single bash script
using bash how can i kill tcp port 16969?
using bash how can i kill tcp port 16969?
get output filename  script
files open in the current session
bash grep is not working with apostrophe
bash grep is not working with apostrophe
how to create bash alias with argument?
how to get usb ids with awk or sed by a generic search string?
how to get usb ids with awk or sed by a generic search string?
c program calling shell script
setting path to run files in 'lua for windows'
how to run list of urls  using shell script
is there a simple way  to strip a website of text from ?
regexp for a bash script that removes html garbage from a string
how to get absolute urls 
awk: shortened if-then-else with regex
how to list files with numbers in their name and retrieve the numbers?
sed variable with $ sign
returns a part of a result (grep)
returns a part of a result (grep)
cannot login to the ftp server
wrong exit status from expect script
sending attachments with mailx and uuencode
can't figure out how to send ^d (eot) signal to mailx  script
can't figure out how to send ^d (eot) signal to mailx  script
mail output on prompt
email whois details on user login using mailx - whois output format not working using sed
shell script hangs on mail command
shell script hangs on mail command
shell script to get exception from logs for last one hour
fail when sending email from bash using & (background)
how set the from email address for mailx command?
use the content of a file as subject mailx
creating email alerts based on thresholds 
mailx unix command in one line
bash script + grep + perl commands
bash: no return value when calling a function
bash: no return value when calling a function
c program calling shell script
shell script: replace the contents
how to invoke defined targets in the same makefile?
handling spaces in substring searches  scripts
handling spaces in substring searches  scripts
have gnu make re-evaluate what is returned by $(shell ...)
capturing stderr coming from make
capturing stderr coming from make
capturing stderr coming from make
how to run a project from cmd? (windows 7)
reading variable value declared in script.sh in makefile
defining default values in makefile
grep a string with some variables 
how to: make -j x // where x is automatically determined
compile c program in multiple folders
one command to do make and run in c++?
bash script to open executable in a new terminal
alias cc to refer to clang in a shell?
alias cc to refer to clang in a shell?
alias cc to refer to clang in a shell?
how to pass -g3 flag to gcc via make ?
passing parameters into ./configure
how to pass -g3 flag to gcc via make ?
redirect stdout and stderr to function
make ignores my python bash alias
how to handle shell expansions in gnu make under ubuntu?
assigning makefile variables from 
compile all source files into executables
specify empty variable on make 
redirect command output with awk
copy multiple files to null directory
installing git on shared hosting - ./configure: no such file or directory
combining pipe with exit status  script
compile all source files into executables
how to simplify repeated redirections 
how to simplify repeated redirections 
bash: trick program into thinking stdout is an interactive terminal
sed script to remove file name duplicates
can i do multiple things in one command on linux?
run executable from makefile
combining pipe with exit status  script
makefile: passing  arguments to file inside makefile
how can i make my shell script abort on error?
shell script can't be run in cygwin
package bash script in "executable" for double-click execution (ideally platform independent)?
trouble adding an integer to an array element 
sigint to cancel read  script?
man grep | grep "color" gives no result
getting various information  terminal
is there a c library reference available from the ?
acrobat reader - print pdf as image ( options)
bash + mysql -d backtick issue
add (collect) exit codes 
setting enviroment variables dynamically on linux
navigating to the earliest/latest command in history when you're in the middle of your history
bash_history numbers, do not store theem, how?
grep initial space
unable to use ctrl f to go back to a suspended program in vim
validate script's argument by file extension?
what is the proper way to specify "usage"  arguments for java main method?
shell script move and copy
pull a specific line from a man page for a given exit code with bash
how to show timestamps in ms in ping messages?
compare two files with numbers and find the difference , using linux shell command
unix tty command and file command?
documentation on the `find` command in zsh
xargs with multiple commands
creating indented text with bash
ftp zip script - stuck
linux script to find string containing specific formatting & manipulate the data
man grep | grep "color" gives no result
run aspell on manpage
halt and poweroff
bash script process name regex
bash script sort files and then dump into files
how to compile swi-prolog from linux terminal along with query command?
getting contents of a particular file in the tar archive
why should be there a space after ' leftsquarebrc ' and before ' rightsquarebrc ' in the bash script
mac bash - doesn't recognize if leftsquarebrc $#=0 rightsquarebrc 
how to export a special file from zip archive?
how to print a series of words using awk?
how to print a series of words using awk?
build an associative array from an input data
easy way of selecting certain lines from a file in a certain order
bash: assigning the output of 'times' builtin to a variable
how to split a multi-line string containing the characters "\n" into an array of strings ?
mkdir command for a list of filenames paths
how do you split a string into an array
easy way of selecting certain lines from a file in a certain order
how to store command return values  array
bash: read lines into an array *without* touching ifs
how can i use a variable as an array name 
bash: read lines into an array *without* touching ifs
converting lines of text to an array
how to find files bigger then some size, and sort them by last modification date?
storage in awk when used with
how can i use a variable as an array name 
bash: append new line/string/text if input string has 2 lines
how can i read a file and redirect it to a variable?
calling maple -shell without shell time overwriting
maple: how to include my library at startup
hadoop 2.2.0 streaming memory limitation
unable to bind hjkl to dlth in screen's c-a esc -mode
print unique names of users logged on with finger
how to print columns of database using forloops in awk
how to compare two lines, which are inverted respect to space
running matlab on background bash
run matlab  without graphical environment?
how : matlab script that can get arguments from unix command-line
run matlab  and automate running unix server bjobs
ignore user-input when running a unix command from within matlab
using  to call 2 matlab files, where 2nd file depends on 1st one
how to run a matlab custom script with parameters in a workspace
how to run a matlab custom script with parameters in a workspace
suppress start message of matlab
how : matlab script that can get arguments from unix command-line
run a matlab script from windows dos prompt
run a matlab script from windows dos prompt
how can i call a matlab function that takes text input from the ?
how can i stop matlab from returning until after a command-line script completes?
matlab to read in a password
script/filter multi-line & multi-field records, with variable number of lines
mawk - removing special characters
adding two decimal variables and assigning values 
tool for commandline "bookmarks" on windows?
only get hash value using md5sum (without filename)
unable to filter rows which contain "is a directory" by sed/awk
unable to filter rows which contain "is a directory" by sed/awk
unable to filter rows which contain "is a directory" by sed/awk
unable to filter rows which contain "is a directory" by sed/awk
unable to filter rows which contain "is a directory" by sed/awk
how to get "random" number based on a string ?
compare 2 files with shell script
checking duplicates in terminal?
checking duplicates in terminal?
checking duplicates in terminal?
unable to create the md5sum file i need to create. manually doing it would be far too labour-intensive
error using command-output to variable  functions using awk
batch process images using os x sips (scriptable image processing system) to downsize images only?
filter "bad path" results in mdfind
getting a comment attribute from a file  on osx
problem with scp on mac os x: scp doesn't like spaces in filenames, "\" fix doesn't work
problem with scp on mac os x: scp doesn't like spaces in filenames, "\" fix doesn't work
curl: how to insert value to a cookie?
mdls command: issue with "kmditemtotalbitrate" attribute values
empty working set from cmd
hardsub/converting via windows commandline
batch file for loop convert to shell script
return value  error
advantages and disadvantages between zsh and emacs' (e)shell
how to disable bash messages when using pyidl?
meteor.js mongodb access?
how can i expand arguments to a bash function into a chain of piped commands?
how to run a project from cmd? (windows 7)
how to run a project from cmd? (windows 7)
difference between cron and crontab?
how to schedule a task on linux server machine while php interpretator is accessible?
can't run mirror command  script
shell script to truncate all mysql tables
create new directory using contents of file
remove the newline after shell command
command not found 's if-else condition when using  leftsquarebrc ! -d "$dir" rightsquarebrc 
cannot use mkdir in home directory: permission denied (linux lubuntu)
can't create a folder/subfolder with mkdir from home
shell script to create directories?
how to create the directory by using shell script?
bash - moving files based on information extracted from filename
issue creating a folder then moving files into it within the same script
bash - excluding directory in "for file in $(find ...)"
create directories from filenames with multiple words
explain batch command please
create a directory , whose name starts with - ( eg : -root)
set downloaded filename in a different directory using wget
checking for existence of a directory with gnu make
how can i create package folders using the shell?
separating characters of a string, bash shell
separating characters of a string, bash shell
bash beginner: error when tries to copy directory itself when making subdirectories
cannot create directories on ubuntu with bash shell script
i just started learning scripting , rhel 6.3
create directory based on part of filename
bourne shell trying to cd into a $variable path?
mkdir error  script
mkdir error  script
backing up directories with bash
not able to append the new folder name to the existing path  scripting
using bash to organize files using "_" delimiter in file name
bash redirect create folder
linux: move 1 million files into prefix-based created folders
shell script - make directory if it doesn't exist
how do i assigne out put of command as variable
creating a directory and parents directory 
write to a file whose path does not exist yet
making the title of a directory the date ?
making the title of a directory the date ?
bash script check for multiple directories
unix - create path of folders and file
bash script directory detection and creation
current directory 
current directory 
need help creating multiple directories in makefile
only mkdir if it does not exist
bash mkdir and subfolders
is it possible create recursively folders using shell script?
how to mkdir only if a dir does not already exist?
how to mkdir only if a dir does not already exist?
creating a directory and parents directory 
create directories based on month name
creating a directory and parents directory 
shell: how to create the directory with slash and parentheses?
create a directory , whose name starts with - ( eg : -root)
how to restart background php process? (how to get pid)
store command to file
how to load different zshrc file via commandline option?
linux script for copying files from multiple windows machines
running individual commands works but not when combines in a shell script.. why?
unix: create a directory with the same name as the working directory
unix: create a directory with the same name as the working directory
unix: create a directory with the same name as the working directory
what permissions are needed to write to folder outside of webroot?
one command to create a directory and file inside it linux commad
suppress error messages in windows commandline
suppress error messages in windows commandline
how to create and enter a directory ?
bash script wildcard not working
 output not redirecting to file.
 output not redirecting to file.
unix command to create directory and go into it
unix command to create directory and go into it
tool for commandline "bookmarks" on windows?
strange grammar in cat command
strange grammar in cat command
tar on one line?
bash refer to previous arguments in same line
how to make if statement
customizing a zsh shell
sublime text 2 and terminal
sublime text 2 - os x 
implementing mkstemp manually
log rotating with a bash script
log rotating with a bash script
bash passing information from script to script
optimizing rails loading for maintenance scripts
re-read environment of parent process in python
pass stdout as file name for  util?  leftsquarebrc answer: use named pipes rightsquarebrc 
one command to create a directory and file inside it linux commad
 semaphore utility
redirect stderr to console and file
xdg .desktop file shell expansion
creating temporary files 
how to parse input parameter using regex  script?
configuring bash alias for virtualenvwrapper
array output for option of command  script
array output for option of command  script
how can i filter output from running program?
one liner  (using perl or awk) to change extension of multiple files?
rename multiple files shell
insert rsh and module load in perl script
how to convert all files in a directory to files of the same name but of a different format 
convert multiple images in imagemagick (windows)
batch resize images into new folder using imagemagick
strip everything except for the complete anchor tag - perl
anyone know how to run mongo --eval?
how to execute mongo commands through shell scripts?
the `.mongorc.js` is not found, but there is one
ask mongodb if it is master out of a bashscript
printing mongodb shell output to file
anyone know how to run mongo --eval?
how do i drop a mongodb database, from the ?
printing mongodb shell output to file
setting default database for mongodb shell
connecting to mongodb from bash shell script
connecting to mongodb from bash shell script
how to stop mongodb server on windows?
mongo  eval exits without error
output pid to file from process executed  script?
is it possible to access mongodb's profile from the  programatically?
does mongoose.mongo.mongoclient.connect() works without mongo shell?
does mongoose.mongo.mongoclient.connect() works without mongo shell?
is it possible to specify a directory/folder for mongodump?
mongodb export and remove docs
mongodb export and remove docs
mongo: drop collection using the terminal
piping output through sed but retain exit status
piping output through sed but retain exit status
how to run a program with arguments with mono?
how to run a program with arguments with mono?
adding to path so that file is available everywhere - bash
adding to path so that file is available everywhere - bash
from , how to know which firefox version is installed in windows/linux?
display file contents
windows equiv of the 'head' command
windows equiv of the 'head' command
bash script different ouput when run as cronjob
display file contents
how can i run complicated commands on establishing a mosh connection?
how can i run complicated commands on establishing a mosh connection?
mosquitto-client obtain refused connection
do some programs not accept process substitution for input files?
bash : mount usb drive on a non root user does not give rights to write to the drive
bash : mount usb drive on a non root user does not give rights to write to the drive
how do you determine if an xfs filesystem is frozen programmatically?
how do you determine if an xfs filesystem is frozen programmatically?
linux script for copying files from multiple windows machines
mounting an smb drive via applescript
shell script : how if condition evaluates true or false
weird "permission denied" exception when running bash script on ec2 (ubuntu)
is there a magic char, like &, that will match on an address regexp in sed?
how to hide password  script?
using a bash script on a mac to connect to network shares?
osx mavericks shell mount ntfs network drive that has no share
osx mavericks shell mount ntfs network drive that has no share
is there a way to test if a directories contents are only there because of a mount?
null free shellcode
bash and nohup capture
script that will search for mp3 using id3
print specified text if string is empty using awk
fortran memory utilization - static vs dynamic
how to use xargs with filenames containing whitespaces?
escape colons, equals, ampersands in arguments
escape colons, equals, ampersands in arguments
terminal giving "unknown option on the : -gf" error with youtube video streaming script using youtube-dl and mplayer
 program for playing sections of audio specified in milliseconds
scripting vlc to capture first frame of a video - can't get  to work
keep mplayer window open, chain sequential video files
printing out the value from a matrix
which one is more efficient for float operations, awk or bc?
ftp command to put a directory to server from local system
how do i use a variable in an ftp shell script?
shell script to parse log and convert to csv
how to set publishurl of clickonce application from commandline
which console commands will build a javascript projects into .appx windows 8 metro applications?
which console commands will build a javascript projects into .appx windows 8 metro applications?
vs2010 web publish  version of file system deploy
how do i compile a visual studio project from the command-line?
where is the currently selected "solution configuration" option stored in vs 2010 or 2012?
where is the currently selected "solution configuration" option stored in vs 2010 or 2012?
import .targets file from  in msbuild
automate delphi 2010 project build with msbuild
msbuild error cs2001 source file could not be found
msbuild 4 with /pp (/preprocess) does not write preprocessed file
msbuild error cs2001 source file could not be found
building visual studio 2008 solution from 
how to print $ ?
shell command/workaround to turn quoted strings into normal strings
how does this batch code create unwanted files
using regular expressions with 'msggrep'
commandline install msi takes too long
is there a way to edit private properties of an msi install file from ?
get node.js for windows without msi
how to insert a resultset of a query to a table ?
mstest progress via 
is there a gitx equivalent for mercurial that allows command-line execution?
bash: only last iteration of loop index not being stored as new element of array
emailing stderr and a file after a java program has run
emailing stderr and a file after a java program has run
moving all files from directories one step up
usage of awk with - include printed result into the same input
how to find files differing only by extension
sorting files based on content using 
how to move 'ls' output file to a folder 
how to move 'ls' output file to a folder 
renaming a file by adding characters using sed
exchange two folder names 
bash alias for 'move a file to a directory, and then go to that directory'
simple bash script to change spaces to underlines in a file name
difference between below syntax 
using sed on a shell scripts on multiple files
regarding a shell script
linux rename files in bulk using bash script or  one liner
linux rename files in bulk using bash script or  one liner
linux rename files in bulk using bash script or  one liner
automate renaming of video files
bash script gives error with mv ... probably easy fix
bash moving files with asterisk to another folder
whats the correct way to loop this
how to find files differing only by extension
locate files which only contain printable characters  script
batch rename files
shell script, replace .png with @2x.png
 add retina display extension to all image into a folder
bash - recursively rename files containing invalid/non-printing characters
bash - recursively rename files containing invalid/non-printing characters
bash - recursively rename files containing invalid/non-printing characters
how to rename files in a directory using bash script
modify several file names using shell
rename multiple files by replacing a particular pattern in the filenames using a shell script
how do i rename all files to lowercase?
bash script to pad file names
lowercase or rename all files in a directory on mac os x
rename multiple files shell
rename file by removing url parameter 
bash scripts to rename file name based on nth occurence
removing part of a filename with mv
rename file by removing last n characters
change *.foo to *.bar  one-liner
renaming xml file extension using bash script
rename file by removing last n characters
change file extensions of multiple files in a directory with terminal/bash?
copy and rename multiple files with regular expressions 
change file names iteratively 
add character to the middle of a file name
how to rename all the files using shell script?
appending a string before file extension  script
prepend filename, not destination path, using mv
prepend filename, not destination path, using mv
text substitution
linux file deletion error
rename files using shell with occurence more than once
bash script to remove 'x' amount of characters the end of multiple filenames in a directory?
bash removing part of a file name
how can i rename all files in a directory using for loop?
rename directories from abc.folder.xyz to folder.xyz
bash: rename small part of multiple files in middle of name
how to rename many files url escaped (%xx) to human readable form
bash: reading files and moving into sub-directory
how can i recover windows chk-files extensions  bash
batch rename files with ids intact
removing a pattern from file names
bash: remove numbers at the end of names.
bash: remove numbers at the end of names.
change file names in a folder using terminal
shell/bash shortcut for bulk renaming of files in a folder
batch renaming with bash
renaming a group of files
unix cli script to rename folders containing space
how to remove part of filename and add extension programmatically?
renaming files in a directory to specific prefix
renaming files in a directory to specific prefix
rename files to match directory name
(unix shell scripting) unzip multiple zip files, rename unzipped file following zip file name
bash rename zips in subdirectories
mv a file that contains spaces from a shell script
add a hostname to all files in folder (bash)
rename files using a regex with bash
bash alias for 'move a file to a directory, and then go to that directory'
how to find the size of file
partial multiple file naming in ubuntu
bash - recursively rename files containing invalid/non-printing characters
bash - recursively rename files containing invalid/non-printing characters
how to move files alphabetically using shell
how to move all files but not directores into a folder
change file extensions of multiple files in a directory with terminal/bash?
renaming xml file extension using bash script
move files to directories based on extension
extract file using bash in one tar file but composed of many tar files inside
what's the most efficient way to move multiple wildcards ?
moving all files from directories one step up
 with mv - file disappeared?
move sets of files with date encoded names
move sets of files with date encoded names
linux rename files to uppercase
variable with '-' (minus signals) 
one liner  (using perl or awk) to change extension of multiple files?
variable with '-' (minus signals) 
using bash to automate creation of test outputs
simple bash script to change spaces to underlines in a file name
bash script to rename images according to their size?
os x delete all odd numbered files
linux-shell: renaming files to creation time
moving files to directories with similar names, in a script
how can i add text to the same line?
how do i move just the files with a particular extension from nested sub-directories?
ubuntu server rename file with dot
what should a longtime windows user know when starting to use linux?
bash script for copying files between directories
what is the command for cut copy paste a file from one directory to other directory
how to move all files including hidden files into parent directory via *
how to move all files including hidden files into parent directory via *
how to move all files including hidden files into parent directory via *
bash: move file/directory and create a link of it
bash: move file/directory and create a link of it
shell script question
shell script question
shell script move and copy
how to move files with adb shell?
strange size in directory . is oversized
moving two files with bash mv and expansion
moving files that have no extensions in a number of directories into one directory
mv wrapped inside an if ing
moving all files from directories one step up
transferring files between folders
move set of files 
untarring a moved file with shell
, how to strip out all numbers in the file names in a directory while leaving the file extension intact
how to consolidate selected files from multiple sub-directories into one directory
how do you send the output of ls to mv?
how to find files differing only by extension
how do i move the oldest or newest file in a directory to another with mac os x terminal
is there any shortcut to reference the path of the first argument in a mv command?
shell script to generate new log with date stamp
symlink broken right after creation
why does this python script not work?
 with mv - file disappeared?
./mv.sh: line 4: cd: 1.4-1.5.csh: not a directory
moving a file with an unknown name
bash rename .log to .log
replace a string in the file name 
move files to another folder, including creation date in filename
usage of awk with - include printed result into the same input
how to rename an existing file with today's date
how to rename an existing file with today's date
how to rename an existing file with today's date
osx move file with uneven number in file name
mv command creates directories
rename a file in a directory without retyping the directory name
converting a shell script to a dmg
loop through a set of html files and append text at top and bottom of each file
transfer a file to a different folder - bash
wrong use of backticks execution?
how to rename files from bash
how to rename with prefix/suffix?
shell script to rename files
running a python script like a built- command
, how to strip out all numbers in the file names in a directory while leaving the file extension intact
change file extensions of multiple files in a directory with terminal/bash?
change file extensions of multiple files in a directory with terminal/bash?
bash mv not a directory
issue creating a folder then moving files into it within the same script
bash: refer to previous arguments of current command
how to rename with prefix/suffix?
bash: how can i move all the content in the folder up to one level?
bash: how can i move all the content in the folder up to one level?
unable to move pictures from desktop to a specific folder
bash: moving files with regex that matches pattern of script arugment and fixed text
how to move files in different directories  (cui)
how do i pipe the last command in my command history to clipboard?
tcsh globbing with alias
how do i open a file in vim from inside a conque shell
programmatically determine when macvim finishes editing a file
programmatically determine when macvim finishes editing a file
maven  how to point to a specific settings.xml for a single command?
how to use the mvn -d to set (multiple) properties in maven via ?
how to use the mvn -d to set (multiple) properties in maven via ?
sed multiline pygmentize
adding a maven (distribution) repository on the 
adding a maven (distribution) repository on the 
maven  how to point to a specific settings.xml for a single command?
command to run only one specific test plugin defined in maven
command to run only one specific test plugin defined in maven
mvn  script if statement
"skipping execution of surefire because it has already been run for this configuration"?
continuous integration based on maven2
how to pass java code a parameter from maven for testing
how to compile with all .jars in .m2?
run a netbeans maven project from a 
run a  with an option as an arguments
run netbeans maven project from command-line?
command to run only one specific test plugin defined in maven
get pom.xml property from commandline
get pom.xml property from commandline
"skipping execution of surefire because it has already been run for this configuration"?
best practices for command-line builds
can't override pom property on the  while executing release:perform
command to run only one specific test plugin defined in maven
continuous integration based on maven2
matlab command (from bash / ) on an already running session
compile actionscript using mxmlc compiler
having a flex project, how to compile it with mxmlc (not using flashbuilder gui)?
compiling actionscript 
piping output from awk to perl
perl  problem
executing in background, but limit number of executions
linux commands (cp, rm) are not executed in a perl script. some works. but no error are returned
insert rsh and module load in perl script
insert rsh and module load in perl script
how to properly capture the return value of a unix command?
how to properly capture the return value of a unix command?
how to properly capture the return value of a unix command?
how do i execute an awk statement in a perl script which uses a perl variable
running a shell command that is quoted
matching string in perl which is parsed with awk
shell script: replace matching text with output of program
how can i get the command-line output of a dos tool using perl?
overlay rows based on common values from sequential rows
how to get piped input to ruby -e on ?
generating a directory listing as webserver index page 
create a file when the command succeed. create another when it fails. one line?
create a file when the command succeed. create another when it fails. one line?
spaces in filenames using forfiles and 7zip
bash - output redirection
how to increment and decrement values in a csv from shell
bash $1 parameter amnesia during calls to other executables
can this destroy my entire website?
what is the recommended  argument syntax?
how to extract a single number from output of a linux program using shell?
how to extract a single number from output of a linux program using shell?
how to extract a single number from output of a linux program using shell?
how to pass  arguments to a c program
how to duplicate a source xml file and append in the output a progressive number to predefined attributes?
how to convert a string into an array within a bash function
package bash script in "executable" for double-click execution (ideally platform independent)?
bash associative array error
bash associative array error
looping through csv
run command from php, exit script, but keep command running
how can i specify a row in awk in for loop?
how to exit if a command failed?
meaning of chmod o+rx '{}' \
piping a command directly to the shell executable
write output to file with tabs/text added in ksh script
is it possible to execute a function  by calling it with parenthesis
 arguments versus case statement argument
how can i alias -- rightanglebrc  "less" the latest file in a directory?
bash script for a c/c++ exe
executing shell script from php opens the file on windows (xampp)
tcl, expect: multiple files w/ scp
tcl, expect: multiple files w/ scp
in my bash loop over a list of some servers the script exits after execution a perl script with ssh
"for" loop  script only run once
"for" loop  script only run once
"for" loop  script only run once
parsing a text stream with one word in each line 
how can i rewrite the terminal output of a program
how to create a batch file that accepts two integers as parameters
how do i pipe in command run using backtick?
matching multiline string at : return certain line if pattern matches, otherwise return empty string
matching multiline string at : return certain line if pattern matches, otherwise return empty string
matching multiline string at : return certain line if pattern matches, otherwise return empty string
matching multiline string at : return certain line if pattern matches, otherwise return empty string
matching multiline string at : return certain line if pattern matches, otherwise return empty string
matching multiline string at : return certain line if pattern matches, otherwise return empty string
bash: send sigtstp signal (ctrl+z)
piping the output of a program that doesn't write to stdout
piping the output of a program that doesn't write to stdout
 arguments from a file content
pass list of arguments to a command 
bash: for loop, two variables linked
bash no such file or directory error
bash no such file or directory error
pass list of arguments to a command 
cut command does not appear to be working
how to get exit status of a shell command used in gnu makefile?
pass list of arguments to a command 
ruby thor  tool commands
pass a regular expression as a parameter to a shell script
parameters in zsh aliases
how does #! work and how can i make it work for coffeescript?
bash comparing strings in a directory
piping findstr's output
how to make an "alias" for a long path?
bash passing arguments/parameters?
make bash alias that takes parameter?
don't want to use double quotes when using git commit -a -m
grep search all whitespaces zero or more times
reading into directory, unix shell script
2-way communication with background process (i/o)
linux  question
bash: name of directory from which file has been "opened as"
how to tee into fd's instead of named pipes
path.getfilename(inputfile) is returning incorrect file name due to having spaces
where to place files to be used as  arguments in visual studio
how do i use file as input stream to existing c++ program?
can cmdargs have flags outside of sub-modes?
how can i "process" text from tee before it is sent to a file
how can i "process" text from tee before it is sent to a file
how to input special character ?
c# loading a file from a ?
c# loading a file from a ?
run a solution from visual studio console without opening ide
configuring bash alias for virtualenvwrapper
asynchronous shell commands
how to save entire output of bash script to file
when should you push variables in quotes in boolean conditions?
how to define a shell script with variable number of arguments?
turn an application or script into a shell command
piping the output of a  tool to a script as a  argument
how can i define a bash alias as a sequence of multiple commands?
redirect stdin in a script to another process
, how can i capture output in the terminal and dump it into a file that's not been created?
bash script function call error
what does this variable assignment do?
weird characters when i print a number into a file (bash shell)
returning from bash script that invokes a python script
bash command as variable
how to deal with /usr/sbin and /usr/local/sbin ?
how to pass an asterisk into bash heredoc?
tee command in mysql batch file is not working
how to know what script header to use and why it matters?
cannot login to mysql in mamp via the 
catching mysql output 
mysql update table from file containing primary keys
how to get a tree-like output of mysql select queries on ?
mysql shell scripting to create procedures
how can i execute a mysql statement generated from information_schema automatically?
how can i execute a mysql statement generated from information_schema automatically?
give .my.cnf to mysql 
mysql connection problems when supplying password
how to pass login parameters to mysql
delete mysql table data (bash script)
mysql query killed - how to prevent that?
select one field and pass it over a pipe to other program
freebsd, mysql, perl, bash: intermittent blocking on named pipes?
formatting show engine innodb status outputs when “\n” are embedded as text
mysql differs in output from script
mysql access denied from bash when executing mysql commands
bash escaping (mysql grant all privileges is failing)
the mysql  doesn't launch
how does mysql take variables ?
execute mysql stored procedure using 
is there a way to disable my.cnf vertical setting from a shell script running mysql?
shell variable definition and substitution properly quoted in a one-liner?
bash: how to invoke command and store the result in a variable?
delete mysql table data (bash script)
delete mysql table data (bash script)
get the sql query result with out table format
connect to sphinxql through linux command-line
connect to sphinxql through linux command-line
bash script command to inject a schema.sql into mysql db
bash script: save into mysql database
big data read subsamples r
, how do i connect to local system db2 or mysql to do a simple query?
how to execute large mysql data-insert script file using  in windows 7?
issue with sql query within a bash script
issue with sql query within a bash script
preserving original format of output from cgi script while displaying in html
truncate table via  
ubuntu bash sql problems
mysql (5.1)  interface and my madness
how to execute a mysql command from a shell script?
how to execute a mysql command from a shell script?
how to use stored procedure  prompt
how to execute sql command with parameters  script
how to find the mysql data directory from  in windows
python script db password
logical and operator in the for loop
sql syntax error  script
how to apply the diff.sql into the mysql database from shell script
simple shell script to delete posts from db
validate mysql username and password
mysql date_sub issue while deleting from database (using variables)
how to export databases through ?
how to find the mysql data directory from  in windows
how to find the mysql data directory from  in windows
automate transfer of csv file to mysql
how do you run a single query through mysql from the ?
valid commands to be used in backticks ?
validate mysql username and password
protecting backticks in substitution
protecting backticks in substitution
using commands in a bash script with 'which'
insert csv to mysql using ubuntu terminal via shell script
in mysql, how to run sql in the ?
bash script not reading input mysql password
batch script to issue commands to mysql db?
mysql replay dumpfile all or nothing in a transaction
how do i truncate all data in my mysql database?
mysql asking twice for password even though it was already provided
how to insert over a million records into a mysql database?
not getting output ing due to mysql query
error 1045 (28000) access denied for user 'root'@'localhost' (using password: yes)
security of passwords  subcommands
mysql asking twice for password even though it was already provided
escaping variables 
php shell_exec insert mysql
unable to connect the mysql database using shell script
email body content gets removed when mail sent from crontab
shell - one line query
bash select with string return
unable to connect the mysql database using shell script
parse the output of a mysql command into a variable in a bash script
error in mysql shell script, 'database: command not found'
how to save a select statement as a shell variable and insert it
how does mysql take variables ?
how do execute a .sql script from bash
opening terminal windows with bash
how to access mysql database using shell script?
shell script that iterates through a sql "delete" statement
capture error and output to log  script
how can i get the number of affected records, and just that, using mysql cmdline?
mysql is not supporting single line comments here. what would be the reason.?
regexp for replacing quotes in database insert statements
regexp for replacing quotes in database insert statements
some questions about setting up mysql on mac
some questions about setting up mysql on mac
executing mysql from command prompt window
bash script - select from database into variable
: log in to mysql and execute command in one line
mysql  escape - sign
insert into mysql from linux terminal
mysql purging shell script
how to import multiple sql file in to same mysql database automatically using shell script
redirect command output to mysql
tar command unable to find file in archive
apache mysql on os x control script
apache mysql on os x control script
need to capture bash command output
how to delete mysql database through shell command
using or in awk
is it possible to run php exec() but hide params from the process list?
mysql: checking datafile being used from the 
running mysql script from cmd.exe in ms windows 7
backing up a mysql database remotely to a local machine with a shell command
msqldump without shell interpretation
msqldump without shell interpretation
shell script dumps all output to one file
shell script to truncate all mysql tables
creating tar file reading standard output
mysqldump database with whitespace in database name
downloading mysql dump from 
myslqdump shell command error
"mysqldump  rightanglebrc  mysql" throws error. why?
"mysqldump  rightanglebrc  mysql" throws error. why?
mysql dump with timestamp
downloading mysql dump from 
downloading mysql dump from 
downloading mysql dump from 
downloading mysql dump from 
using awk output to run mysqldump
how to export databases through ?
mysql password is messing up my dump
mysql replay dumpfile all or nothing in a transaction
how do i truncate all data in my mysql database?
mysqldump with some tables, not using --skip-table
how to wait for a task to complete before continuing shell script
how to convert multiline linux commands to one line of command
how can i filter stdout
pipe stdout to multiple processes  leftsquarebrc zsh rightsquarebrc 
redirect output to filename given by result of command
shell script calls sudo; how do i suppress the password prompt
declare array with result of find command
how do i do if statement arithmetic ?
why is sed not replacing this newline character?
bash error sed: -e expression #1, char 3: unknown command: `/'
replace newline character  variable?
command not found on bash function call
what does an ampersand in arithmetic evaluation and numbers with x's mean ?
nagios-cgi password screen bypass
nagios-cgi password screen bypass
python shell freezes on reading (fasta) file
specify  arguments like name=value pairs for shell script
shell script error
shell script error
launch nano editor passing piped command
launch nano editor passing piped command
whm / cpanel : manage wheel group users and ssk keys access
modifying bash prompt
my  locks up when making a commit with git
 to open a window
how to know some app's console command in unity dash?
smarter removing unnecessary whitespace csv
comparing two files with different coulmns
filter text based in a multiline match criteria
converting a series of matrix files into an index of coordinates in awk
sed on sun solaris
awk split file needs to a close
how do i check for a nawk substring being several possible values?
regarding nawk and system command
pipe to shell script issue
pipe to shell script issue
how do i test the net speed from the command-line on a linux server(no gui)?
simple socket server ?
measure local sockets speed?
redirect both stdin and stdout
exiting first process in pipe when second exists
piping output from a python script to a remote machine?
how do i transfer a file over a network and record time taken?
how do i transfer a file over a network and record time taken?
netcat : is there a way to send a continuous stream from a command output to a remote listener
can i use netcat to run php cli w/ arguments?
listen for returning udp packets 
result of netcat command illogically matching a string
why can i ping a server but not connect via ssh?
netcat timeout not working?
using awk on a command to receive a part of its output
how to properly capture the return value of a unix command?
bash - how can i make the log file accessable via tcp port when-ever requires?
mysql for python
get the process name from remote machine
which dates given week number, bash
which dates given week number, bash
how to bind cmd shell in ncat(not netcat) in windows?
echo server with bash
how do i use a netcdf stored value in a bash script mathematical operation?
how do i use a netcdf stored value in a bash script mathematical operation?
how do i use a netcdf stored value in a bash script mathematical operation?
batch file iterating through files on a local network server
batch file iterating through files on a local network server
matlab - running train function under  environment
capture nethogs output in log file
setting ipv6 , win pe
windows  processor: multiple and nested if statements
windows  processor: multiple and nested if statements
how can i see a log of internet connectiones using command prompt?
extract ip from netstat output
intelligent thin start with port alias 
how to grep listening on port 80 that can also filter other port contain 80 such as 8080 8088 ...?
how to grep listening on port 80 that can also filter other port contain 80 such as 8080 8088 ...?
how to grep listening on port 80 that can also filter other port contain 80 such as 8080 8088 ...?
how to grep listening on port 80 that can also filter other port contain 80 such as 8080 8088 ...?
pipe netstat output multiple times
how to parse netstat command to get the send-q number from the line
how to get ip of outside connection using telnet, or perhaps misconfiguration of memcached allowed ip's
linux bc command total counts
concatenate variable in string bash
how to append string to file if it is not included in the file?
how to parse netstat command in order to get process name and pid from it?
how can i echo the newline after everyline
how to get the biggest port number  / centos
netstat -i redirection problem
tmux prompt not following normal bash prompt ps1 \w
run linux command through java.
something wrong with my sh script dont know why?
bash: assign "key -- rightanglebrc  value" in new array based on old array
how can i replace the existing mac add with a new mac address using sed
rename file 
replace a text with sed which has variabables
how to delete duplicated rows on one file based on a common field between two files with awk?
sort a file based on a column in another file
bash script to get command values in two files and write is a pattern to new file
pass bash variables into subprocess arguments
speed up clojure startup time with nailgun
speed up clojure startup time with nailgun
nginx version + awk not working
new-item recursive registry keys
using "nice" command with an alias
using "nice" command with an alias
subcommand statement grouping?
linux - starting process at a specific priority
adding users to sudoers through shell script
adding users to sudoers through shell script
build a string  with newlines
spellcheck each line
the variable is empty after inner loop `for`
extracting only my function names from elf binary
is xcode replace system commands while run script phase?
missing include when compiling qt with visual studio 2010
upgrade vc++6 project to vc++ 2008 from 
when compiling wxwidgets from , i have an error
output ip only from an nmap scan on open port
scanning to finds active working webservers (nmap?)
nmap – taking a random sample from a range of ip ranges - is combining -ir and -il possible?
available hosts on a network
reading from a list and print host name is open on specific port
fastest way to ping a network range and return responsive hosts?
ruby system arguments
nmap output format ip:port
grep ip adress with open port nmap
how to create a bash script to check the ssh connection?
using vim to remotely edit a file on serverb only accessible from servera
how to run from php a bash script under root user
don't want php script to execute the shell command as apache user when it is executed through browser?
git pre-commit hook - no such file or directory
node.js version on the ? (not the repl)
how can i execute a node.js  prompt?
how to preserve quotes in a bash parameter?
stop listening for node.js
stop listening for node.js
when we exit command prompt when npm start is still running (node.js), will the process end and the server stop?
how to detect if a node.js script is running through a shell pipe?
karma: how to change preprocessors on commandline (or switch preprocessors in config)
self-daemonizing bash script
how to start hadoop, accumulo, and zookeeper from a java program?
unix redirection issue:  leftanglebrc /dev/null 1 rightanglebrc &- 2 rightanglebrc &- &
start a job that does not end when my terminal session does?
how to run nohup and write its pid file in a single bash statement
python script prints but has no terminal
python script prints but has no terminal
decouple process remotely launched from local machine
how to avoid creating nohup.out and in this case where the output will be generated?
how to avoid creating nohup.out and in this case where the output will be generated?
how to avoid creating nohup.out and in this case where the output will be generated?
strange behavior of "run in terminal", it kills processes
how to ensure that a unix script runs continuously?
how can i put the current running linux process in background
terminating ssh session executed by bash script
detect use of su command 
will aborting a shell script abort the command it is executing
redirect nohup's stderr to nohup.out
sequentially executing background processes unix
is there any method to exit the ma before the subshell returns?
run inotifywait on background
shred script with output
what can be used to spawn a completely seperate process in bourne shell (or csh)
java jar running on remote ubuntu server
java jar running on remote ubuntu server
nohup and sed, redirecting stderr and stdout
missing something in the linux terminal after launching matlab from the 
running matlab in the background
ignore user-input when running a unix command from within matlab
exiting shell script with background processes
run command from php, exit script, but keep command running
getting ssh to execute a command in the background on target machine
bash script timeout
direct output of a niced command to a text file
unexpected java.lang.illegalargumentexception when calling a jar file
unexpected java.lang.illegalargumentexception when calling a jar file
when we exit command prompt when npm start is still running (node.js), will the process end and the server stop?
bash script not outputting nohup.out + jenkins
need a script which will invoke other process/script and exit, but the invoked process should continue running
centos start php script in background
php script stops working suddenly without reason
php cli - set running on cmd line then continue? don't want bash script to wait
how to keep web.py app running always?
how do i use unix commands while a django development server is running? (picture provided)
starting multiple instances of a python script at once from linux 
unix redirection issue:  leftanglebrc /dev/null 1 rightanglebrc &- 2 rightanglebrc &- &
sass --watch process is locking up my terminal window
using aliases with nohup
cron job doesn't output to nohup.out
running parts of shell script in background
why can't i use unix nohup with bash for-loop?
shell script use ssh remote run command whit nohup in the background,but this ssh process can not be close. but i use the screen is all perfect
shell script use ssh remote run command whit nohup in the background,but this ssh process can not be close. but i use the screen is all perfect
can i change the name of `nohup.out`?
can i change the name of `nohup.out`?
unix redirection issue:  leftanglebrc /dev/null 1 rightanglebrc &- 2 rightanglebrc &- &
nohup is not working inside a for loop
nohup is not working inside a for loop
nohup is not working inside a for loop
nohup is not working inside a for loop
how to use tail -f in a shell script?
how to know pid of the process ran by remote ssh
run command `at ` 5 seconds from now
can't capture and echo pid by $!
running nohup command on script that takes all parameters
not to wait for a certain command to end execution;
trap command used to protect a file from alt + f4
rsync permission denied created directories have no permissions
find and replace using function to manipulate matches first
find and replace using function to manipulate matches first
how do i write some (bash) shell script to convert all matching filenames in directory to command-line options?
extracting an tag at the same level of another tag 
meta-alias in git bash
new application process from bash shell
how to get parameter value of sql from shell script
notify-send cause invalid number of options
is there a way to make the taskbar blink from the terminal?
parse line , using nova to get the line
what is ~/.npm dir for?
npm global path prefix
gulp command not found after install
binary file in npm package
firebase-tools "-bash: firebase: command not found"
how to update node.js and coffeescript version via terminal on mac?
how to compile lesscss using node.js
difficulty in getting gitbook site to show up in github page
creating a virtual machine using azure  tool 
what is a faster alternative to python's simplehttpserver?
how can i install jsawk to node and run with shelljs on windows?
zsh / shell - how to assign something to a variable quietly?
shell commands: identical parameters, different values
git bash: launch application via alias without hanging bash (windows)
passing variables into awk from bash
awk not working  script
shell pipeline does not function with dig
bash batch file rename
shell: print a number with preceding zeros to a variable?
add two hex numbers and store as hex number 
add two hex numbers and store as hex number 
what does the semicolon represent in an awk action?
no output for the following code
nunit ignoring  parameter for configuration
linking error opencv 2.4+cuda windows 7(x64) 
linking error opencv 2.4+cuda windows 7(x64) 
split string into array 
variable substitution in psql \copy
variable substitution in psql \copy
how do i diassemble a an object program made on c?
script parameters 
script parameters 
passing arguments to octave function from with script
passing arguments to octave function from with script
how can i suppress the output of a command in octave?
read a file by bytes 
output file with one byte per line in hex format (under linux bash)
output file with one byte per line in hex format (under linux bash)
remove end of line characters with a bash script?
how to create a temporary file with portable shell in a secure way?
parsing a file containing non-printable ascii characters
shell - recording the output of the 'od' command to a variable
diff - difference in files
file conversion and removing special characters from a file 
sed doesn't read csv when saved in excel
bash syntax error: unexpected end of file with for loop
bash script - read binary file
bash script - read binary file
bash script - read binary file
how to find dos format files in a linux file system
bash command using variables
how can i convert a shapefile from agd66 to gda94 from a script, using open source libraries
how can i update the value of a pointer by pulling the value from an ini file?
problems when simultaneously launching two programs with bash
unix: how to run a program with a file as an input
what does this awk sentence mean?
search and replace with a batch file
what does this awk sentence mean?
how to exit from perl and return a results array
awk - split only by first occurrence
confusing shell syntax
/users/dylanrichards/.profile:source:2: no such file or directory: qstk/local.sh
cant get open -a to work correctly with adobe
cant access coda application from command-line
bash: piped argument to open command fails. open commands excutes too early?
bash: piped argument to open command fails. open commands excutes too early?
using popen() to open a program ?
how do you open sourcetree from the ?
mac os x - passing pathname with spaces as arguments to bashscript and then issue open terminal command
mac os x - passing pathname with spaces as arguments to bashscript and then issue open terminal command
python shell window in compiled applet
run 2 or more scripts in different terminal windows  leftsquarebrc mac rightsquarebrc 
xcode 4: custom behavior does not execute my sh script?
how do i open a command file in a different terminal window?
how to run mac os terminal commands from java (using runtime?)
how to start growl via the 
bring focus back to terminal window that called command
send  args while opening a file
wireshark not opening in x11 terminal
selenium tests aplication path problem test not run on selected url
how can i translate a shell script to perl?
how can i translate a shell script to perl?
launch gui app on ios 5 through the  (jailbreak)
how to create a function rc to accept arguments?
terminal command to open safari
how can i execute javascript ?
backtick vs native way of doing things in perl
how can i read the output from external commands in real time in perl?
how do i use perl on the  to search the output of other programs?
wireshark not opening in x11 terminal
cannot get nohup, open_init_pty and sudo to work together
how to cut a particular piece of data and store it in a string 
openssl unknown option error
retrieving data via awk and openssl
storing files inside bash scripts
encrypt a list of logins used by a bash script -- a fifo or...?
sed filter colon separated list
sed filter colon separated list
encrypt a file using bash shell script
storing openssl file digest as shell variable?
php encrypt data, bash decrypt it
aes encrypt with openssl  tool, and decrypt in java
ocsp command-line test tool?
bash - how to convert a directory of .pem files into pkcs12 (.p12) format?
openssl: how to disable "writing rsa key" message in console
how to talk to imap server  via openssl
connecting to gmail pop server by windows 
openssl: how to determine ssl cert expire date from the cert file itself (.pem)
read common name from .pem file
automatic generation of an x509 certificate by openssl
linux change to another /dev/ttyx and run program there
 parsing in argc/argv
alternative for sed ...  leftanglebrc (cmd) and cmd | sed
how to implement  curl into php curl request
how to capture sqlplus  output  file
java problems when running ant: noclassdef
what is wrong in this command ....can you please locate the error in this command
how to import python variable to bash
prevent a bash script from waiting for seperate applescript to finish
search for keywords in osascript output
how to hide a password from a prompted osascript dialogue from a mac/unix shell script
exit terminal after execution
osascript using bash variable with a space
osascript using bash variable with a space
xcode and permissions
access the current user email and name from the bash  x
grep only specific section of file; determine os x system version in a shell script
buttons aren't functioning correctly with osascript
setting popup box with osascript and a 10 second delay
get list of running apps on mac os x ?
shell script variables within multiple quotes
how do you invoke a terminal through a command and cd to a directory?
running a command in a new mac os x terminal window
double-click shell script issues (.command on mac)
mac osx - start shell & working directories
exit terminal after execution
exit terminal after execution
pass stdout as file name for  util?  leftsquarebrc answer: use named pipes rightsquarebrc 
shell script can not save output from  into variable
ducttape sometimes-skip task: cross-product error
starting outlook and having an email pre-populated from 
starting outlook and having an email pre-populated from 
starting outlook and having an email pre-populated from 
starting outlook and having an email pre-populated from 
pass output to function
call bash function in irb
passing urls to exec command in ruby
running phantomjs from a ruby on rails application
pass a parameterized folder name to 
how do i add a line of text to the middle of a file using bash?
how to echo first half of 'cat file.js; ls'?
passing argument surrounded with double quotes
tar (on windows) a list of files in c#
passing argument surrounded with double quotes
tar (on windows) a list of files in c#
what is the  syntax to delete files in perforce?
can i speed up parsing perforce changes/describe output?
perforce  head revision file
perforce  head revision file
how to pipe perforce command to "find" cmd command?
in perforce, what is the command to connect to a different port when switching client user?
perforce: 'remove from workspace' from ?
perforce  head revision file
p4 sync perforce  to sync multiple trees to one changelist by entering the changelist only once
oemtocharw returns wrong characters
calling a perl script as a shell command
using sbt-native-packager, how can i simply prepend a directory to my bash script's ${app_classpath}?
checking for installed packages and if not found install
scripting a carriage return 
scripting a carriage return 
find os number of updates available
how do i restrict cd arguments to directories ?
script to record the sound of a program to the microphone
script to record the sound of a program to the microphone
kornshell printf - padding a string
converting traditional line breaks to markdown double-space newlines
converting vim text file to .doc or .docx
parallel ssh with custom parameters to each host
what is the best way to speed up a find command on a huge directory tree using gnu parallel?
executing gnu parallel within a script
how to run gnu parallel with screen sessions arguments?
how to pass part of an argument to a gnu parallel command
run jobs in parallel
fastest possible grep
processing a headered csv file with gnu parallel
fastest possible grep
parallel sed with group capture
how to wait till all services are up in parallel using bash?
direct xargs output to file, using multiple arguments
direct xargs output to file, using multiple arguments
how do i efficiently pretty-print a list of json objects?
intersperse the lines of two different files
efficient way to get ip addresses based on a list of hostnames
parallelizing a while loop with arrays read from a file 
wait for parallel remote process to finish bash ssh
how to run a script multiple time parallel using tollef parallel
shell, run four processes parallel
how to run a script multiple time parallel using tollef parallel
recommended way to batch stdin lines to another repeated command, like xargs but via stdin rather than arguments?
parallel nested for loop 
parallel nested for loop 
how to feed a large array of commands to gnu parallel?
run du on parallel
how to feed a large array of commands to gnu parallel?
how to append the output of parallel grep to a file?
how to feed a large array of commands to gnu parallel?
passing filename and file content arguments to perl script with gnu parallel
gnu parallel: how to format replacement string?
run parallel multiple commands at once in the same terminal
run parallel multiple commands at once in the same terminal
bash and grep: passing of regex parameter
how to pass arguments to shellscript using java?
calling 'mv' from python popen with wildcard
issue executing runtime.getruntime().exec awk
easiest method for removing html/xml  leftanglebrc tags rightanglebrc  from single-line output
how do i duplicate a folder and remove dotfiles and psds in the duplicate folder?
very weird error in common lisp
bash argument parsing in function
accepting negative doubles with boost::program_options
idiomatic way to write clojure code for repeatedly reading lines from the console?
bash ignoring error for a particular command
what should a longtime windows user know when starting to use linux?
php script to change ubuntu user password
linux bash shell: how to create user with username and password from file?
what should a longtime windows user know when starting to use linux?
unix - how to append next line to previous line in a file
how do i produce a tab separated file from a text file?
formating bash output into one table
paste without temporary files 
awk: extract different columns from many different files
how to insert a column between 2 columns in a file?
awk, read rows in file1 and output it as a parallel columns in file2
use sed or awk - or other text processor - to find/replace a number in a range
write columns from different txt files using shell
write columns from different txt files using shell
pipe stdout to multiple processes  leftsquarebrc zsh rightsquarebrc 
linux command to layout tab separated list nicely
how to show file and folder size in ls format
a script for generating a mapping between two sets of words randomly
combine text from two files, output to another
combine text from two files, output to another
extract multiple columns from multiple files with bash, awk or sed
how do i append lines from one file to the end of each line of another file?
how do i append lines from one file to the end of each line of another file?
combining values from different files into one csv file
how to attach column from one file to another file ?
bash: process substitution, paste and echo
sed script for duplicating the line on that same line
awk mirror (reverse) rows
display two files horizontally in the shell
appending text from a file to text in another file
colum o shell script
using sed to combine multiple csv files
split into chunks of six entries each using bash
intersperse the lines of two different files
merge file  by pipe
merge multiple csv files awk column-wise, no match
linux: merging data from two different files into one, how is it done?
append values into key pair from two lines
bash to merge 2 consecutive lines in a file
bash output to csv columns
awk to read specific column from a file
joining columns on  with paste or pr not working
bash output to csv columns
bash output to csv columns
joining columns on  with paste or pr not working
newbie — renumbering line numbers in .txt file
paste linux script
turning multiple lines into one line with comma separated (perl/sed/awk)
setting variables  by running commands
bash: how to get one column from csv file of variable row lenght?
how to merge files with line-skipping
merge csv files , bash
bash: iterating two v ariables in a for loop
merge csv files , bash
merging 2 files with the head and tail utilities 
bash: piping stdout to paste
assigning command's output to shell variable and get the variables size
using sed or similar to modify lines in a file
merge lines from several files
combine two files line after line using cat
awk/sed/grep command to compare the contents of three files
merging contents from two files in one file using shell script
load multiple files containing text into mysql
paste files with extended delimiter 
concatenating every other line with the next
replace new lines with comas 
converting a list of ids to a space-separated ids
bash command to sum a column of numbers
concise and portable "join" on the unix command-line
how to insert data into file with ',' as a delimiter
replace new lines with comas 
linux shell on multiple files
secret santa fun bash
using awk to grab random lines and append to a new column?
extract multiple columns from multiple files with bash, awk or sed
awk 2 files find and update min/max values
a script for generating a mapping between two sets of words randomly
comparing the two values line by line from two different text files
comparing the two values line by line from two different text files
unix - how to append next line to previous line in a file
how to sort output data into columns and rows
how to insert custom string in the result of linux paste command
summing up two columns the unix way
exclude a column when pasting two data files
sum number in two different files
adding data from different files and appending text - shell
bash output to csv columns
display two files horizontally in the shell
what linux command can merge this format?
formating bash output into one table
how to process two result files using awk?
combine text from two files, output to another
how to sort a file according to another file?
how to concatenate two files line by line using bash
adding a new data column in a file consisting of 4 columns
shell script to find bigrams
awk using an index key over a range
reorder lines of file by given sequence
how to sort groups of lines together?
retreiving information from a text file. linux
diff two batches of files
how should i apply this type of patch?
modify tomcat server.xml config using sed
escaping variables in path names using csh
how to remove escaped characters in filenames?
bash: is possible to prefix a command with a directory?
applescript shell script progress
output the root directory in a tar archive
speed up clojure startup time with nailgun
how to capture the output of one shell script into other 
vs2010 web publish  version of file system deploy
, how to create a file in a absolute path name
application.restart not passing arguments back
how to parse the "middle" field(s) in either awk or php?
how to sort the file in awk
shopt -s extglob not working
how to prevent auto-closing of console after the execution of batch file.
how to prevent auto-closing of console after the execution of batch file.
embed a executable binary in a shell script
a large hex to binary conversion in bc
how do i capture bash output to the mac os x clipboard?
how to execute lines of text on the clipboard as bash commands
how to execute lines of text on the clipboard as bash commands
how do you pipe scripts into nodejs from ?
how do i capture bash output to the mac os x clipboard?
how to exclude multiple directories with pcregrep?
grep from  leftanglebrc tag rightanglebrc  to  leftanglebrc /tag rightanglebrc  through multiple lines and look for a special string inside
grep from  leftanglebrc tag rightanglebrc  to  leftanglebrc /tag rightanglebrc  through multiple lines and look for a special string inside
perl equivalent of my regular expression to handle a multi line search
limiting results to ±5 lines
limiting results to ±5 lines
wrong line numbers with multiline grep -p  leftsquarebrc  perl extension  rightsquarebrc  match
how do i grep for entire, possibly wrapped, lines of code?
how to use regular expressions to return only a part of a file name?
create backup files with date
what is a good pattern to synchronize files between computers in parallel (in centos)?
how to save the result of grep to variable x?
how to save the result of grep to variable x?
how to write shell script for finding number of pages in pdf?
shell - run additional command on failure
how can i pass all arguments with xargs in middle of command 
can parameter expansions be run on command substitution output in one step?
bash escaping spaces in filename, in variable
which find -exec convert command to use in order to concatenate n pdf files into one?9sa
how can i pass all arguments with xargs in middle of command 
how to annotate ps or pdf from (linux)  without losing quality?
how to avoid the shrinkage of the output merged pdf file using gs?
how to write shell script for finding number of pages in pdf?
how to annotate ps or pdf from (linux)  without losing quality?
is there a linux cli tool for extracting a page range to make smaller pdfs?
can awk do this? fixed with fields, horizontal and vertical records mixed
search a word inside a pdf in terminal linux without any app
what is a good pattern to synchronize files between computers in parallel (in centos)?
what is a good pattern to synchronize files between computers in parallel (in centos)?
checking pear version
execute command multiple times with curly brackets arguments list
how to save ouput of perf (linux tool) to a file?
finding all queries in a string in a source code using grep
finding all queries in a string in a source code using grep
finding all queries in a string in a source code using grep
how do i remove part of a line in a multi-line chunk using sed or perl?
how do i remove part of a line in a multi-line chunk using sed or perl?
how do i remove part of a line in a multi-line chunk using sed or perl?
replace or append block of text in file with contest of another file
perl - detect from  if file has only a specified character
perl - detect from  if file has only a specified character
replace newline and following whitespaces until a specific string in a file
regex find and replace over multi lines 
how to delete multiple empty lines with sed?
processing paragraph using sed
strip \n within paragraphs of text in a file
find the longest sublist
replace lines by line number with lines from other file
sed or perl remove outer parentheses only if first inner word matches
put all separate paragraphs of a file into a separate line
search and replace regex over multiple files (large data)
strange behaviour with command-line perl
perl  multi-line replace
how to replace new line and ^m chars with ~~ 
perl regex works in script but not when executed on the 
print everything between pattern
any one give me a solution for sort
sed unterminated `s' command multiline search and replace
perl one liner to extract a multi-line pattern
extract a specific pattern from lines with sed, awk or perl
how can i remove all attributes of p elements in html files using perl?
awk sed perl, replacing specific pattern within a range of lines
how can i replace some text with another  console using a pipe?
what's the clearest way to replace trailing backslash \ with \n?
sed - replace new line characters not followed by 5-digit number
how to delete the records that has '?' in a file using sed
merge pattern line/s with line before
bash: filter away consecutive lines from text file
match and replace multiple newlines with a sed or perl one-liner
which characters must be escaped when running perl -e on the 
unwrapping a java manifest file f
using sed, how can a regular expression match chinese characters?
remove invalid non-ascii characters 
replace fullwidth punctuation characters with normal width equivalents
replace fullwidth punctuation characters with normal width equivalents
replace fullwidth punctuation characters with normal width equivalents
sed - unable to execute some commands on utf-8 encoded chars
finding punctuation and counting the number of each from the unix 
sed and perl not replacing a letter in a file
using the bash sort command within variable-length filenames
shell script to retrieve the status of objects from the given output
if two or more entry in last column, make independent row for each entry
how to print a range of columns in a csv in awk?
sort a csv row 
sort a csv row 
linux + how to cut partial number from long number ( version number )
compare two file columns (unsorted files)
compare two file columns (unsorted files)
i need to alter lines of a unix file that contain a certain string
how can i switch around the content of a line of text
how can i switch around the content of a line of text
get username from passwd file using shell scripting
parsing a unix log file
print first occurrence of a line 
uniq first field without discarding the content of duplicated lines
match list from one file1, extract corresponding lines form file 2
cutting a specific column from a space delimited file
bash mysql query to comma separated file
how to use cut with delimiter " {##} "?
display the particular item name and item price from input file through command prompt?
want to edit a file in place (substitute a column value) based on a value in another column in the same file
replace text surrounded by specific characters
why doesn't perl find my script when i use the -i switch?
execute a perl program in a subdirectory?
bash/shell error running perl -e 'use  leftsquarebrc module rightsquarebrc ': can't find string terminator "'" anywhere before eof at -e line 1
bash/shell error running perl -e 'use  leftsquarebrc module rightsquarebrc ': can't find string terminator "'" anywhere before eof at -e line 1
search and replace enumerating found strings
url encode value of capture from successful match in perl oneliner
access perl module with script
access perl module with script
how to use shell variables in perl command call in a bash shell script?
how can i use perl to get a sha1 hash of a file from the windows ?
how can i use perl to get a sha1 hash of a file from the windows ?
perl one-liner for xml encoding
perl one-liner for xml encoding
perl one-liner for xml encoding
perl one-liner for xml encoding
how do i extract content from a webpage with certain headers ?
how do i extract content from a webpage with certain headers ?
print head from site in perl
linux + ksh  + round down or round up - float numbers
how do i specify the "before-the loop" code when using "perl -ne"?
how can i convert perl one-liners into complete scripts?
how to use shell variables in perl command call in a bash shell script?
how to use shell variables in perl command call in a bash shell script?
bash - getting the last modified date from file without using stat
change date format in first column using awk/sed
why do i get a “can't find string terminator” error only when the command is in a variable?
bash: how to cleanly log processed lines of ssh/ bash output?
bash: how to make short delay?
how to read query parameter value from url using perl command
how to read query parameter value from url using perl command
bash array in perl script
remove duplicates from column
print to out file
sum of tagged lines perl/shellscript
create a csv from text file useing linux console
print first occurrence of a line 
for each file in folder, pick out the third column and store in a combined file
print to out file
insert lines based on numeric value
extration of particular row which have more than 50 value from a matrix
how to delete an entire row if a specific column contains a zero?
select rows from a text file by a matching pattern in one column
perl: console / command-line tool for interactive code evaluation and testing
how to process a file in perl - handling variables from bash: disappearing "." character
how can i make the list of letters from a to z and iterate through them in the shell?
can i explicitly specify $0 before running a perl script?
how to export dot separated environment variables
how to add new number into each line?
how to add new number into each line?
large number base conversion
one liner to extract data block by block
using perl instead of grep
how to list files with numbers in their name and retrieve the numbers?
detect if user's path has a specific directory in it
perl: check if shell has redirected file handle
how to find and replace on a specific amount of times?
match any character (including newlines) in sed
can you use sed or perl -pe to remove a part from a binary file?
using tar to compress log directory, what happens when apache tries to write during compression?
how can you access an environment variable that has a space in its name ?
using the bash sort command within variable-length filenames
how to type ascii code "00" and "01"  bash?
how to create a string with shell output (backticks) ?
how to create a string with shell output (backticks) ?
how to "zero" a file with 1's
shell syntax error near unexpected token `done' 
shell syntax error near unexpected token `done' 
why doesn't this perl one-liner work on windows?
how do i determine whether an environment entry is a bash function or not?
sorting on the last field of a line
what is the point of the "perl" command?
linux command to find text in most recent file matching name pattern
how to make this command safe, and work for quoted strings
swap text strings which includes special character with sed or perl -e
swap text strings which includes special character with sed or perl -e
swap text strings which includes special character with sed or perl -e
change lowercase file names to uppercase with awk ,sed or bash
ping + how to minimize the time of the ping command
how do i prevent long emails from becoming attachments?
insert the capital letters with in curly braces {} in a text file in specific lines
bash: i have 2 country-level datasets in .csv format & would like to filter them for common elements & plot the result
get android:versionname with shell command
writing a simple, intelligible fork bomb ?
perl script (or anything) to total up csv column
deploy script needs to update an integer in a config file
how to do regex substitution only on some arbitrary field you specify
replacing a pattern in a text file with a random value
replacing a pattern in a text file with a random value
how to prepend only those lines with tabs/spaces in a file, with esc character?
how to do regex substitution only on some arbitrary field you specify
remove double quotes around integers only in a csv file, regex?
remove double quotes around integers only in a csv file, regex?
replacing @*@ environment variable tokens with their current values, _within files_
if condition fits, remove 58th (or last) character
using sed or awk to update a line
bash: add string to the end of the file without line break
using awk to iterate through list of files?
leave a new line only before a pattern
delete lines if $4 is one
how can i extract lines of text from a file?
trying to replace a particular column in a set of files with a range of values
ubuntu linux command extract substring inside
how to delete records from huge text file based on timestamp?
linux bash scripting to remove certain text
merge csv lines if not ending with a pipe
what's the best tool or method to search for a specific word in a codebase?
perl: how to replace a string in file with a paragraph
substitute first string match in 1-line 2gb file on linux
replace two newlines to one  
how can i delete a newline if it is the last character in a file?
transform using a shell script a formated xml file into a one-line file containing all the tags
how can i make changes to only the first line of a file?
perl one-liner + add condition before edit file
using regex and sed command to substitute ' *' pointers in c++ code is not working
how to trim trailing spaces after all delimiter in a text file
perl one liner + remove password from script by perl one liner line
find a pattern and replace one character of it
perl one-liner + add condition before edit file
replace delimiter in csv that is not between square brackets
linux  - remove 2 characters before each tab for a certain line in a text file
how to write a script or shell command to use a regex in perl?
how to replace newline for a specific line number?
perl  one liner + delete word after match the line in file
substitute pattern on specified line numbers with perl
replacing string in file with perl
parse search/replace header file with formatted results
calling perl replacement from within a bash script/function?
simple search and replace without regex
how to solve "bad interpreter: no such file or directory"
why is my perl replace not working?
find line containing and replace with
how to change the format of substitution variables in a template
read tab delimited file and count the occurrences and delete row
perl: how to get lines between patterns 
removing carriage returns on the line prior to match (using sed, tr or awk)
add column to middle of tab-delimited file (sed/awk/whatever)
extract client ip address from tcpdump (on openbsd)
add symbol between characters of mac addresses
how to extract words in multiple line ?
shell script to retrieve the status of objects from the given output
how to remove columns from multiple files using sed?
how to remove columns from multiple files using sed?
find number, and remove adjacent characters equal to this number
linux - get text from second tab
how to do regex substitution only on some arbitrary field you specify
how to do regex substitution only on some arbitrary field you specify
grep to get  leftanglebrc div rightanglebrc  content
ubuntu linux command extract substring inside
strtonum in awk causes the values to lose precision
how can i sum up the exponent value ?
how can i generate a file of random negative and positive integers in serial?
know the execution time and compare execution time of 2 files using perl or shell script
add spaces to variable 
getting the names of the first n files without listing all of them 
regex for removing duplicates before comment
converting string of ascii characters to string of corresponding decimals
need help ing using regular expression patter matching
need help ing using regular expression patter matching
any way to find if two adjacent new lines start with certain words?
flattening nested list pattern with sed/perl-like regex or awk
convert a date with bash into mysql format
how to extract the content between two brackets by using grep?
find files with multiline strings matched
what is the best way to print regex hits?
parsing the output of sge's (qstat -j "*") using awk or perl
how to get unique occurrences from a file?
perl one-liner: how to reference the filename passed in when -ne or -pe commandline switches are used
smarter removing unnecessary whitespace csv
search a keyword, if it matches pick the word besides to it
if grep value greater than 1000 then
sed time and http request from access logs
regexp on nmap services file
searching for a substring in a string 
extract sub-strings from vulnerability assessment log  with multiple separators
perl one-liner: how to reference the filename passed in when -ne or -pe commandline switches are used
perl regex syntax for single letter hex
print first 80 char in a line  pipe
read numbers from file until line  leftanglebrc  n
unix command (mac os): cut and move rows
merge csv lines if not ending with a pipe
how do i count the number of occurrences of a string in an entire file?
sorting individual lines within a file
parsing the headers of sequence file
print first 80 char in a line  pipe
globbing and regular expresion prob with bash script
convert julian timestamp to regular time 
trying to delete lines from file with sed -- what am i doing wrong?
match words in word-list and count occurances
unix - print distinct list of control characters in a file
unix script to convert queries
how to use sed-awk-gawk to display a matched string
script is re-reading arguments
what's the best way to convert "awk '{print $2  rightanglebrc  rightanglebrc  $1}' file" in a perl one-liner?
cutting element  based on column value
perl, sed, or awk one-liner to change the format of the file
need a simple preprocessor to operate on text file
sed does not recognize -r flag on aix
what's the equivalent of sed -n 'np' file in perl
perl  equivalent of php -e
perl  equivalent of php -e
swap with a consecutive line on a pattern match 
selective print between regexp
selective print between regexp
find lines with the least number of spaces using unix tools
sum of tagged lines perl/shellscript
finding multiple strings on multiple lines in file and manipulating output with bash/perl
kind of tranpose needed of a file with inconsistent number of columns in each row
three levels of parenthesis/quoting  snippets in tcsh?
three levels of parenthesis/quoting  snippets in tcsh?
three levels of parenthesis/quoting  snippets in tcsh?
awk: access captured group from line pattern
how to scrape multiple log files for an exception
how to scrape multiple log files for an exception
unix - print distinct list of control characters in a file
unix - print distinct list of control characters in a file
remove lines containing space 
convert xml to pipe delimited output file using awk or sed
bracket expressions in grep patterns
shell script pattern matching
how can i use sed to create this pattern in file
line after match of two files
what is a script that would help parse a set of lines that have been incorrectly word wrapped?
parse a file under linux
how to separate different values and make them variables
sed script to edit csv file or python
replacing newline sed
how to separate different values and make them variables
how can i count unique terms in a plaintext file case-insensitively?
shell script to extract data from file between two date ranges
replace newlines for lines matching regular expression
perl one liner + how to filter files
print n character after pattern match
what's the equivalent of sed -n 'np' file in perl
shell script to extract domain extension from a list of domainnames
sed does not recognize -r flag on aix
bash grep transform vertical to horizontal list
using sed with regular expression
bash/php extract url from html via regex
how can i extract all quotations in a text?
how to add blank line after every grep result using perl?
extract data from a subsection of a file using shell commands or perl
perl one-liner: how to reference the filename passed in when -ne or -pe commandline switches are used
print 3, 4 and 5 line of the file 
print 3, 4 and 5 line of the file 
shell script to extract data from file between two date ranges
regular expression to check if brackets are nested
how to fgrep/egrep exact string in a file
use perl to output unique lines from a log file?
bash/perl printing line(s) from file until a character with conditions
how to print the body content of a html page using sed
what is perl's equivalent to awk's /text/,/end/?
perl one liner + how to filter files
what is perl's equivalent to awk's /text/,/end/?
pattern recognition with eight characters
print all rows following matched row
match lines with pattern n times in the same line
sorting words in lines in a file and output sorted lines again
sort entries of lines using shell
unix - cut command (adding own delimiter)
find lines with the least number of spaces using unix tools
find lines with the least number of spaces using unix tools
swap with a consecutive line on a pattern match 
swap with a consecutive line on a pattern match 
how to remove the second line of consecutive lines starting with the same word?
how to ignore all lines before a match occurs ?
print a file in binary form (1 and 0)
print a file in binary form (1 and 0)
print a file in binary form (1 and 0)
bash/python/perl magic to get aggregate datetimes across multiple log files
sed to add blanks in every line
how to use grep or awk to extract specific block from a file
perl one liner + how to filter files
how to find all of the words appearing between `\word{}` ?
how can i sum up the exponent value ?
grep -p no longer works how can i rewrite my searches
printing all regex matches
linux command or bash syntax that calculate the next ascii character
remove lines that contain non-english (ascii) characters from a file
why this single and double quote make so much difference in output
extract a specific pattern from lines with sed, awk or perl
linux: counting spaces and other characters in file
how to use grep to output unique lines of code from a file?
find and replace in a specific column
sed join lines together
how to tell bash not to expand $_ variable?
how to tell bash not to expand $_ variable?
how to do string replacement for specified number of times using linux commands?
sed: search and replace string with line number
global regex substitution with unique arbitrary values
how to 'exit 1' if this find script returns results
how to inserting string after matching pattern
perl one-liner for xml encoding
perl one-liner for xml encoding
swap text strings which includes special character with sed or perl -e
how to convert those characters not quoted to upper case?
how to convert those characters not quoted to upper case?
howto 16bit left logical shift all ip addresses in csv file (octets 3&4 become 1&2)
swap text strings which includes special character with sed or perl -e
how to inserting string after matching pattern
bash: how to turn content between two lines into single line?
increment numbers within string using awk and sed
how to swap two strings in file using bash?
looking for a perl or sed oneliner to replace a string with contents from other file
using sed to intersperse null bytes
how can i delete a newline if it is the last character in a file?
how to not to add new line at the end in os x with sed
transform using a shell script a formated xml file into a one-line file containing all the tags
using perl regex multiline to reformat file
bash cat multiple files
removing characters and delete empty lines with sed/perl
how to print file contents with filename before each line?
using awk or sed to duplicate lines and ultimately create method wrappers
how to find duplicate files with same name but in different case that exist in same directory ?
replace all forward slashes that are in paths, with backslash (so, not all forward slashes)
how can i use awk or perl to increment a number in a large xml file?
looking for a perl or sed oneliner to replace a string with contents from other file
how to delete any string beginning with a backslash?
getting error in substituting special characters with sed/perl
getting error in substituting special characters with sed/perl
replace several instances of a pattern in a one line string in os x
remove part of string from each line
sed regex and special chars ( \200 ) which are not matched by the dot
parsing the headers of sequence file
remove xml declaration from xml data using perl or awk
regex pattern to increment a counter on replacements
shell script /dev/urandom
sed/awk replace in all matches
shell script: replace matching text with output of program
replace/delete special characters within matched strings in sed
text processing: awk, sed: change a number followed by a character
replace control characters and spaces with escape sequences
how do i search & replace using sed and not include a group of characters?
insert comma after certain byte range
fast multiline regex find/replace of \r and \n
how can i find and increment datestrings in an xml file?
regex - nested patterns - within outer pattern but exclude inner pattern
subtract a constant from all numbers in a file using a perl one-liner
awk gensub transformation
fast multiline regex find/replace of \r and \n
replace character in regex match only
running a perl command in a bash script on osx
word substitution with incremented number 
how to find and add a string to a file 
using bash, how to increment a number that uniquely only occurs once in most lines of an html file?
replace two lines in a file with one new line with bash
linux sed search replace multiple per line
make ips anonymous in output of web analytics tool - perl or sed?
how to substitute newlines that ends with * (asterisk)
replacing @*@ environment variable tokens with their current values, _within files_
pattern matching on oozie logs
is there a way to run a tr command (or something like it) in windows perl?
parsing line continuations
replace the match itself, not the wild card, using awk gsub or generic regular expressions
use perl or awk to search for numbers in a file and increase them by constant amount from the 
pad numerical values in filename with three digit value using sed
how can i merge two specific lines with sed?
replace newlines for lines matching regular expression
how to replace newline for a specific line number?
fast multiline regex find/replace of \r and \n
replace punctuation by one space
convert csv to crlf line endings  script
replace cr/lf in a text file only after a certain column
using awk to iterate through list of files?
sed: remove hex-character(s) within the first n characters of a file
1-indexing to 0-indexing in grep/sed/awk
if condition fits, remove 58th (or last) character
subtracting a constant value from a column without round-up
how to find and add a string to a file 
how to find and add a string to a file 
how to manipulate the following text
space formatting data to csv
swap value in column 1
shell substitution/replace not working as expected with perl and sed
complex text replace from the 
replace two lines in a file with one new line with bash
replace a string upto and including the first instance of another string in os x
how do i write a sed regex to extract a string delimited by another string?
how can i use sed to replace blank fields in a csv file, with a string
script to replace characters in column
search and replace string  bash
special signs in xml
using  to find and replace?
how to replace text using greedy approach in sed?
non greedy regex matching in sed?
excluding a string in a regex matching, for sed processing
extracting multiple substrings from string using sed
double every third occurrence of a string
search string and replace corresponding number in windows env
replace string with substring in lowercase using sed / awk / tr / perl?
running the same sed transformation on a large number of files
using a batch file to create a newline for each instance of a keyword
how to change all occurrences of a char in all files in a directory (and subdirectories ) using perl
find and replace on server
editing text files with perl
replacing part of a url with bash
how do i remove part of a line in a multi-line chunk using sed or perl?
how to do a "sed -" like operation on windows?
how can i delete a newline if it is the last character in a file?
delete lines awk
how to avoid escape character in awk
find and replace in file with script
find and replace in file with script
linux command to replace string in huge file with another string
sed - html replacement
replacing non-ascii characters or specific ascii character with a space in file
git post commit hook getting commit number
git post commit hook getting commit number
replacing non-ascii characters or specific ascii character with a space in file
how can i append the name of a file to end of each line in that file?
adding prefix and suffix to every line in multiple files - using ?
edit a text file to change the contents at a specific line number
unable to replace the word in a given folder's contents by sed/python/perl
linux bash scripting to remove certain text
bash templating: how to build configuration files from templates with bash?
how to replace all spaces except those appearing after a tex command?
bash scrip expecting then, when else is needed
why is this error happening ?
error: done  leftanglebrc   leftanglebrc (find . -name "*.jar")
python or bash - adding " at beginning of line and ", at end of line
use sed to replace one namespace with two
how to change a windows path to a linux path in all files under a directory using sed
sed edit the file in place
complex find and replace 
replacing a part of a line with bash / perl
linux  global search and replace
linux  global search and replace
how can i replace the same string several times with different random values in perl?
insert a string in the previous line and next line of a particular phrase/text
match string plus any non-whitespace character and insert whitespace
delete lines awk
regex notification indicating success/fail
regex notification indicating success/fail
perl from : when replace a string in a file it removes also the new lines
how to change all occurrences of a char in all files in a directory (and subdirectories ) using perl
find and replace in text file with terminal. how to escape all the characters?
adding suffix after 80 column using regular expression
specify multiple possible patterns for a single command
find, replace, and increment at each occurence of string
convert file to another file by shell script
grep from a log file to get count
how can i insert double quotes (") between two columns using sed/awk/perl
script to add characters at the beginning of every line in a code block?
script to add characters at the beginning of every line in a code block?
replace characters in certain postion of lines with whitespace
linux + cut file until specific word
how to process a file in perl - handling variables from bash: disappearing "." character
perl find a pattern between two patterns inside bash
perl one liner error in windows
one liner  (using perl or awk) to change extension of multiple files?
get ceiling integer from number  (bash)
how to extract quoted strings using perl/awk?
sorting data with awk or perl
parse list of e-mails using perl one-liner
 perl: split string to modify first part
 perl: split string to modify first part
how to retain file name using perl replacement for grep
 perl: split string to modify first part
search and replace value in-between quotes
assign variable from perl to csh
getting a perl command output into a shell variable
ack sometimes won't show line numbers and loses colorizing
ack sometimes won't show line numbers and loses colorizing
-bash: syntax error near unexpected token `)'
-bash: syntax error near unexpected token `)'
extract files from each sub directory separately
how do i get the output of a perl script into a file from the dos prompt?
 leftanglebrc  operator , passing to perl script
remove dups from many csv files
remove dups from many csv files
run the output of a script as a standalone bash command
run the output of a script as a standalone bash command
how to run perl program automatic when the perl program isn't running?
need to replace string in file2 that matches first column of file1 with second column of file1
how can i convert markdown documents to html en masse?
call application command from specific mojolicious installation
why doesn't perl find my script when i use the -i switch?
parse and rearrange hostnames
how can i search for simple if statements in c source code?
perl: how to make date as argument to perl script
perl: how to make date as argument to perl script
batch rename directories in reverse order
how do i count the number of occurrences of a string in an entire file?
batch-renaming file name in a directory
literal quotes in flags for a command in a bash script
error while trying to rename files in script and cmd line
read tab delimited file and count the occurrences and delete row
kind of tranpose needed of a file with inconsistent number of columns in each row
how can i use sed or awk to delete lines matching certain field criteria?
sort blocks of texts in perl
parsing log file to get certain information
how do i get a shell script to properly shuffle array values?
sed - conditional branching within an address range
grep to match all lines of patternfile (perl -e ok too)
position of a character each field
subtructing n number of columns from two files with awk
recursively listing the contents of a tar/zip archive
batch rename directories in reverse order
get regions from a file that are part of regions in other file (without loops)
batch rename directories in reverse order
find and execute mathematical expression from an xml attribute and replace the value
filter an xml document based on a list of ids
create a silent mp3 from the 
calculating rows in text files (bash/perl)
how to avoid errors with perl  parameters and use strict
how to sort by hh:mm:ss.xx in ksh in aix 5.3?
how can i check if a perl module is installed on my system from the ?
what color options exist for ack(-grep) for colorization of output, logs, etc?
regarding argument passing through shell script issue
solaris10: how to get the remote end ip address in inted-started bash script?
solaris10: how to get the remote end ip address in inted-started bash script?
shell script to rename file with string from inside file
postgres dump specific table with a capital letter
shell-scripting: use a pipe as an input for tar
how to create a backup of an postgres db using bash?
postgresql: .pgpass not working
postgres dump specific table with a capital letter
restore a postgres backup file using the ?
bash/ps: get pid of a running "myscript.sh" child of a certain process
how to get child process from parent process
odd behavior of pgrep  script
finding process count  via 
passing a variable into awk within a shell script
very complex shell string with a lot of quotes , how to deal with escape
active processes running except the current process
how to get only process id in specify process name ?
getting pids from ps -ef |grep keyword
killing the process with pid using a single line
killing the process with pid using a single line
how to get the pid when the program started by nohup?
unexpected end of file when running
bash - killall -r does not match
run a script in the same shell(bash)
awk command variable nf not working on null input
bash script - running current or new instance of an application
in gnome-terminal/bash, can std output be run directly (interpreted?) as a command?
awk - remove last item out of list
write a background process to check process is still active
if shell command empty
how to remove the searching pid from this ?
multiple sequential jobs in a shell script to be cronned in a conditional manner
phalconphp: i have an error in create model by devtools
phalconphp: i have an error in create model by devtools
phalconphp: i have an error in create model by devtools
php's escapeshellarg not working with exec (string not encapsulated in quotes)
kill all silent processes  script
shell script - sudo-permissions lost over time
write a linux script that can be run as root/sudo
how to run php code in gedit using external tools plugin?
 php mysql_connect() error
call certain php script function that run bash script
php 
which php shell?
imagecreate() works fine when php script in ran from browser , but not when it is run from the shell
php  php.ini path error
php interactive shell and no newline with echo
how to turn on php's register_globals for local scripts only?
how to force the control c within the shell script the shell script has ran,
 script run in background goes in stopped state
how to execute php code from the ?
 php mysql_connect() error
problem running cake shell in cronjob
how do i suppress content type information when calling php from ?
is it possible to read cookie/session value while executing php5 script through command prompt?
is it possible to read cookie/session value while executing php5 script through command prompt?
passing variables to bash and php
using bash shell from within php
how to run a php sentence directly from the ?
how to execute php code from the ?
bash script with php code
url encoding a string  script
how do you execute a method in a class from the 
$_server not set with  -r option?
php 
how to execute shell command from php in background
how to print stuff in a loop to console, so that unix grep can interact with it?
how to print stuff in a loop to console, so that unix grep can interact with it?
how to print stuff in a loop to console, so that unix grep can interact with it?
running php from  interface
replacing $_get to make it work from 
how to pass parameters from bash to php script?
prevent waiting for  output
-bash: syntax error near unexpected token `newline'
create a php script(model) in codeigniter which is triggered via  to create a csv file of a database
create a php script(model) in codeigniter which is triggered via  to create a csv file of a database
can't execute command from crontab?
shell /bash script - how do i execute multiple scripts at once using while
shell /bash script - how do i execute multiple scripts at once using while
running php file through ?
symfony2: create table from 
creating and using laravel 4 commands
laravel script stops running after some time
unable to execute laravel artisan commands
how do i get less or more to recognize keystrokes when piping from a cli php script?
running php file through ?
how do i launch a php file using 
run php composer.phar from wampstack
what is the php exec() return value?
how would i get codeigniter2 to accept  interface urls from its index file?
running multiple instances of a php file from bash and append result to file?
running multiple instances of a php file from bash and append result to file?
executing php script via ssh
 localy using wamp
php shell_exec not working
how to enable pathautocompletion from windows commandline
piping data into  php?
running symfony plug-in tasks via  ssh on shared hosting
what is the syntax to pass array parameters in a symfony1 task?
running a test/unit/rbctest.php from a bash script directory not working
how to call php script from just server by bash?
how to pass get variables to php file with shell?
change php script with variables from working in http to working 
rsync hangs / freezes when trying to sync a symfony project via windows xp
selenium phpunit passing variables on ubuntu 
cron job debain amazon ec2 instatance error
simple bash scripts issues
how to find a pid of a process wich name i don't know exactly?
how to get watch to run a bash script with quotes
bash script - running current or new instance of an application
linux / bash, using ps -o to get process by specific name?
extract a quoted value from multiple lines using sed
ping iphone address, response is off
ping + how to minimize the time of the ping command
how to write a script to detect the ssh connection to a series of remote machine?
how can i write a linux bash script that tells me which computer are on in my lan?
how do i find my computer's ip address using the bash shell?
unable to redirect stderr/stdout to /dev/null in script
wait for network interface before executing command
how to make the following code return to a bash variable?
linux command to generate file on server if pinged server is down, and a different file if it's up
shell script to check wether a server is reachable?
extract average time from ping -c
how to redirect the perl -nle command to a file?
how to get the percent of packets received from ping ?
how to redirect the perl -nle command to a file?
windows batch: sleep
mac ping but only display avg ms
how can i write a linux bash script that tells me which computer are on in my lan?
shell script to check ping packet loss & avg latency on aix
how to sleep for 5 seconds in windows's command prompt? (or dos)
print ping response time while higher than a fixed value, including date
print ping response time while higher than a fixed value, including date
redirect stderr to logger and then to file
bash - how to parse output from running application
extracting ping times and prefixing with time stamp
how to show timestamps in ms in ping messages?
how to timestamp every ping result?
how to timestamp every ping result?
is there a python library that allows to easily print ascii-art text?
is there a python library that allows to easily print ascii-art text?
how to enable python repl autocomplete and still allow new line tabs
one line ftp server
is there a python library that allows to easily print ascii-art text?
capturing multiple paralleled grep outputs 
find text line1 in spreadsheet and get column 2
using killall to terminate bash
unix -killing pid and passing argument in ksh
is there a way to run a shell script as one whole task(with single pid)?
bash script on background: how to kill child processes
kill all relevant processes in a php script 
linux script to kill java process
linux script to kill java process
how to kill all processes with a given partial name?
osx teminal: how to kill all processes with the same name
how to kill a process based on its argument
using killall to terminate bash
very complex shell string with a lot of quotes , how to deal with escape
using grep with ps -ax to kill numerous applications at once (mac)
running a few commands from bash script
bash & linux symbols, jboss
how to quickly kill java processes ?
getting pid of spawned exec in phing
shell script to get the process id on linux
implementing netcat 
bash command and return status
 program for playing sections of audio specified in milliseconds
 program for playing sections of audio specified in milliseconds
 program for playing sections of audio specified in milliseconds
how to open a play app in intellij idea from the ?
how to run a script on linux from a windows service?
automating git commands in windows
automating git commands in windows
capture  output in vbscript
to run shell script ( with parameters) on windows  via putty.exe
gnuplot: residuals of  on output
gnuplot and bash process substitution
gnuplot and bash process substitution
gnuplot input filename as variable
custom pam config: how can i pass username/password parameters to an pam_exec.so module?
custom pam config: how can i pass username/password parameters to an pam_exec.so module?
running android unit tests from the ?
running android unit tests from the ?
how do i programatically detect if my laptop is plugged in or not? (osx)
can linux redirection command return an image file?
enter shared location through a 
enter shared location through a 
piping `cd` or `popd` output prevents changing directories?
used macports to install wordpress. where is it now?
installing rvm: synchronization of the local ports tree failed doing rsync
moving a file from a remote server using cgi script
how to propagate windows environment variable for powershell run from cygwin
how to propagate windows environment variable for powershell run from cygwin
windows  com-port writing for arduino
how to execute powershell commands from a batch file?
encode file with cmd
running powershell command in a /batch file
running powershell command in a /batch file
windows  get folder size
windows /shell - discarding the utf-8 bom
exporting powershell output to text file
how do i run a piped powershell command from ?
powershell - can it be determined if a script is run by right click "run with powershell"?
powershell command not running in .bat file?
sending email from command-line via outlook without having to click send
how can i run a powershell script as a background task without displaying a window?
set up powershell script for automatic execution
how to pass an argument to a powershell script?
how to copy a .c file to a numbered listing
print command result side by side?
how to join two files 
display two files side by side
joining a pair of lines with specific starting points
merge 3 csv files with their data in different columns
how to copy a .c file to a numbered listing
zsh 'sticky' prompt
exporting .obj-model to three.js json-object causes python-errors
wrong output on html table from nawk script
why the variable  from the result of python works strange?
saving a line field into a variable
saving a line field into a variable
using awk or send to find a string and insert another complex string , before it
change the color of text in python shell?
how to replace special characters 
filter output and push filtered data into array with bash
how can i use 'say' with perl 5.8.8?
grep and awk in windows invalid char in expression error
unix output of command to text file
how can i translate a shell script to perl?
manipulating an array (printed by php-cli) 
perl hash data::dumper output
trouble with nawk and ofs 
how do i echo string with bash command more in perl?
what is ${array leftsquarebrc three rightsquarebrc }
zsh print array objects in color to terminal window
mess with functions and associative arrays in ksh93
why this single and double quote make so much difference in output
how can i retain whitespace in kornshell script when using backticks?
variable  newcatalog=`'$newcatalog' | sed 's/^-/\. -/'`
variable  newcatalog=`'$newcatalog' | sed 's/^-/\. -/'`
variable  newcatalog=`'$newcatalog' | sed 's/^-/\. -/'`
save matlab invisible plot under terminal as an image with same size
ksh: assigning function output to an array
how can i process a perl array element in a shell script?
awk array initialization at each line fails
awk: move files when they meet a certain criterion
if running cp in a perl script will files that exist be overwritten?
syntax error when using  in python
correct stream for interactive in perl
bash: start multiple chained commands in background
how define array on awk
multiple -m  arguments (python)
can we pass a environment variable modified by python script to the outer shell?
parsing a schedule to upload to google calendar
how can i use 'say' with perl 5.8.8?
refering a variable as an array base and inside double quotes
why this single and double quote make so much difference in output
basic awk help: want to scan a rails log and find number of unique ips per day
python shell not printing list, only printing  leftanglebrc type 'list' rightanglebrc 
is it possible to obtain the path of the script using argparse?
awk syntax error: awk: line 29: syntax error at or near :
awk syntax error: awk: line 29: syntax error at or near :
quoting  and perl in recursive ssh command
quoting  and perl in recursive ssh command
awk print fnr incrementing from 0
when should @ be escaped ?
extracting an tag at the same level of another tag 
function to process input from pipe
bash: execute command with spaces in quotes using backticks
bash: execute command with spaces in quotes using backticks
how to run my own programm using command ?
unsetting a group of environmental variables
format multiline command output  using printf
formatting bash/shell script time to days, hours, minutes and second
bash script for gnuplot input
script to convert ascii chars to " leftanglebrc uxxx rightanglebrc " unicode notation
how to write a text file with color
is this a useless use of `cat`?
how do i format, enumerate, and execute each line from ldap query result?
'ls $variable' does not list folder contents
need to printf script's arguments
how can i save all filenames in a directory to a text file ?
how to printf an exclamation mark ?
write a shellscript from the shell, or from a shellscript?
how to printf an exclamation mark ?
customized bash wildcard expansion
using xvkbd to read a barcode. how to disable enter key?
bash: whitespaces removed from string
awk does not return what i want
list all files in multiple directories
word count of each line in a script
bash: calling a scripts with double-quote argument
bash: calling a scripts with double-quote argument
expand a variable in a variable 
bash: using color in prompts
is there a better way to erase a line than echo " "?
bash arithmetic expressions
constant number of characters in floating point number 
fast load 70,000 files into array and insert into database
bourne shell "printf %s" usage
printf "columns" and newline
printf "columns" and newline
how to left justify text ?
bash: simpler way to get multiple elements of array at once?
kornshell- creating a fixed width text file
print space-separated list in columns
grep variables and give informative ouput
printf columns of different widths and newline
multiplication of 2 variables
bash echo status
bash: text formatting
bourne shell "printf %s" usage
include non-0 exit codes in the subsequent bash prompt
shell percentage calculation with very large numbers
filtering files by number  error unary operator expected
bash rounding float to the nearest tenth
awk: is there a way to limit the width of an output field?
format decimal  command
format decimal  command
format decimal  command
how to display number to two decimal places  function
floating point rounding 
how writing a shell script to add enough zeros to have six digits for each number?
complete number to specific length
zero padding bash/shell
differentiate between 2 and 02  script
bash: how can i subtract two time strings using bash?
padding zeros to binary numbers using shell scripting
openssl unknown option error
tr -cd ' leftsquarebrc  leftsquarebrc :digit: rightsquarebrc  rightsquarebrc ' only provides one digit
padding zeros in a string
how to print different output based on different count of digits
adding two numbers 
shell: print a number with preceding zeros to a variable?
padding zero on floating point bash printf
making string always be of length n
formatting text ing
format output in columns  leftsquarebrc bash, grep, sed, awk rightsquarebrc 
whitespace concatenation 
create string with trailing spaces 
bash printf confusion
bash printf + echo string
bash printf + echo string
right align/pad numbers 
is there a better way to erase a line than echo " "?
how can i do ansi c quoting of an existing bash variable?
writing a bash array (of strings and special chars) to a file
xargs split at newlines not spaces
using sed to intersperse null bytes
calculate and print the average value of strings in a column
print output to 2 seperate column 
bash comparing array value to find max
keep real values using awk format convertor
bash let command..gives wrong result on padded numbers
remove last word  variable
re-inserting escapes into a filename with spaces printed to the terminal by a bash script
re-inserting escapes into a filename with spaces printed to the terminal by a bash script
tmux window title keeps renaming
bash find treating * as *
bash: "printf %q $str" deletes spaces when in scripts. (alternatives?)
escaping entire urls for use in regex commands
bash: "printf %q $str" deletes spaces when in scripts. (alternatives?)
bash: "printf %q $str" deletes spaces when in scripts. (alternatives?)
command to escape a string 
re-inserting escapes into a filename with spaces printed to the terminal by a bash script
re-inserting escapes into a filename with spaces printed to the terminal by a bash script
bash: how to print the filename of the nth file in a folder
how to read an array from a variable split using ifs
substituting multiple (but not all) occurences of a pattern using awk's gensub() function
substituting multiple (but not all) occurences of a pattern using awk's gensub() function
printing values in special format using printf
increment aaa to aab 
shell script create string of repeated characters
how do i store the result of an eval statement in a variable?
how to replace "/" in a posix sh string
how to replace "/" in a posix sh string
ing, how do i ensure all characters in a variable are passed literally?
can linux bash scripts respond to install options
how do i print a variable in a shell script without altering trailing newline (if there is one)?
convert a decimal number to hexadecimal and binary in a shell script
awk. pass number of records in a file to a variable
extracting numbers from file
how to reliably iterate over the fields of an array?
how can i save all filenames in a directory to a text file ?
keep real values using awk format convertor
pass all elements in existing array to xargs
how to printf  with multiple arguments?
merging large number of files into one
detect quoted strings in sql query
shell script with string beginning with "-e"
awk: loop & save different lines to different files?
how to pass an asterisk into bash heredoc?
shell scripting: cat vs echo for output
build a string  with newlines
bash: how do i echo "-e"?
search duplicate element array
easy way of selecting certain lines from a file in a certain order
easy way of selecting certain lines from a file in a certain order
sorting an array passed to a function as parameter
how can i use a variable as an array name 
strip the last and first character from a string
how to deal with file name starts with spaces ?
unable search names which contain three 7s in random order by awk/python/bash
how can i save all filenames in a directory to a text file ?
list the files with minimum sequence
list the files with minimum sequence
searching for a file with letter "o" and number 6
linux: extract the first line of a file
invoke grep from a shell script and keep the colored patterns
select nth file in folder (using sed)?
syntax error when i try to use bash from sh `echo 'rm -rf !(cookbooks)' | bash`
easy way of selecting certain lines from a file in a certain order
exporting a variable with a backslash
awk - join last column with next line first column
echo "-n" will not print -n?
invoking sed with a shell variable
parsing unique string into a variable in the posix sh shell
how would i pass environment into docker using bash?
how do you type a tab in a bash here-document?
regarding a shell script
pass all elements in existing array to xargs
showing the content of an array with printf (not echo)
unix bash array not displaying all elements
bash print first to nth column in a line iteratively
replace text in every command-line argument, and pass it to another command
why is bash swallowing -e in the front of an array
why is bash swallowing -e in the front of an array
why am i getting some extra, weird characters when making a file from grep output?
how can you echo a literal '-n' or '-e'?
how to get the full path of a particular directory?
collect numerals at the beginning of the file
passing several values between two shell scripts
bash multi-line string with extra space
bash multi-line string with extra space
any idea why this code isn't running in parallel
change user password in samba server with the pdbedit tool
change user password in samba server with the pdbedit tool
how to concatenate strings formatted with printf 
xxd -r without xxd
loop through variable 2 elements at a time 
no newline in echo/printf  while loop
loop and print stars in same line unix command
mimic -i flag in sed when -i not available
bash print array elements on separate lines
get version from file name
get version from file name
get version from file name
how to list all the files matching criteria and select first file using shell script?
how to list all the files matching criteria and select first file using shell script?
build a string  with newlines
bash script - why value is set under function and not set outside the function
bash script: how to append characters at the end of a string efficiently (o(1))
issues in spaced filepaths with complex find loop
how do i substitute special characters with escaped version in a bash script
how can i do ansi c quoting of an existing bash variable?
double quotes inside quotes 
how does one ‘contract’ strings to escape special characters ?
bash scripting variable allocation when using here-document
bash printf: ignore parameters or access by index?
create associative array  3
is it possible to preserve quotations by storing $@ into another variable?
bash find treating * as *
fixed width bash prompt
working with 'list variables' in the shell. how to prefix to all elements in list?
how does one ‘contract’ strings to escape special characters ?
how to concatenate strings formatted with printf 
bash programming: get name of one-and-only subfolder of given directory
build a string  with newlines
how do you type a tab in a bash here-document?
sprintf ing?
bash: convert hex representation inside a string to binary equivalent
bash rounding float to the nearest tenth
unable to print value of shell variable stored in another variable
multiple strings, truncate line at 80 characters
multiple strings, truncate line at 80 characters
how to inhibit line breaks when calling echo several times in a row
how to change file name in loop?
underline a string until the end of the line
determining escape sequences for cursor keys canonically
determining escape sequences for cursor keys canonically
bash scripting printf'ing an escape sequence contained in a variable
clear the ubuntu bash screen for real
bash: write integer to binary file
bash: how to manipulate hexadecimal value?
how to use "read" command read a whole line data which end with  leftanglebrc cr rightanglebrc  leftanglebrc lf rightanglebrc  under bash?
trick about xargs and wildcard
keep the first 52000 characters of the first line 
showing the content of an array with printf (not echo)
using bash to input stuff into c program
echo - syntax error: bad substitution
how can i repeat a character ?
how can i repeat a character ?
how do i print some text  and pad it with spaces to a certain width?
sprintf ing?
putting info from a text file into a table
why does the bourne shell printf iterate over a %s argument?
shell script to display - memory usage, disk usage and cpu load?
putting info from a text file into a table
extracting numbers from file
bash if empty string
some text on the left, some text on the right, on a single line, with bash
awk: write results to files with formatted names
how to send formatted mail body unix script
storing a command into a variable?
what is this bash snippet doing? php/perl equivalent?
why is git 'dim' color option not working?
pane title in tmux
using colors with printf
hex editing from a bash file
bash scripting printf'ing an escape sequence contained in a variable
how can i use grep to search for years from 1900 to 2100?
osx terminal string length
read from pipe  script
bash: printing string-value results in error
echo new line  prints literal \n
increment number in url address
how to concatenate comment + bash alias command call?
repeating a printf format 
redirect function output to printf state ment seems not working 
calling functions with xargs within a bash script
print the last occurrences of duplicate line only
perform an operation for *each* item listed by grep
perform an operation for *each* item listed by grep
how do i pick random unique lines from a text file ?
deleting echo line 
issue with echo and tab 
why can't i set ifs for one call of printf
why can't i set ifs for one call of printf
stream redirection order and what os perform in details
stream redirection order and what os perform in details
variable substitution  printf {}
modify passed parameter directly
convert utf8 to utf16 using iconv
output json from bash script
easy way of selecting certain lines from a file in a certain order
easy way of selecting certain lines from a file in a certain order
jsch channel shell, input / output
solr index and extract .sh and .sql files
problem with spaces in a filepath - commandline execution in c#
problem with spaces in a filepath - commandline execution in c#
problem with spaces in a filepath - commandline execution in c#
problem with spaces in a filepath - commandline execution in c#
with bash, how can i pipe standard error into another process?
how can i send the stdout of one process to multiple processes using (preferably unnamed) pipes  (or windows)?
call command prompt and leave window open
system.diagnostics.process: the specified module could not be found. (0x8007007e)
how can i run the first process from a list of processes stored in a file and immediately delete the first line as if the file was a queue and i called "pop"?
bash script: spawning multiple processes issues
how can i get return value when using awk in perl script?
how to pass awk output into variable?
bash: passing paths with spaces as parameters?
trouble starting process through c#. perhaps because of whitespace
shell script to delete certain text from all index.php files on the server
sed token from : delimited string
how do i code an arbitrarily long chain of pipes?
convert a file path into string
redirect hardcoded program output to stdout?
command string mangling fun
bash: buffer entire stdin, then output
advanced i/o redirection in a c program.(simple shell)
shell programming, pipe outputfil
shell programming, pipe outputfil
shell programming, pipe outputfil
string comparison  with an or condition
how to redirect out put of one c program to other c program using bash script?
how to redirect out put of one c program to other c program using bash script?
how to redirect out put of one c program to other c program using bash script?
on the lack of "int main(int argc, char* argv leftsquarebrc  rightsquarebrc )" knowledge
why does descriptor redirection seem inconsistent?
why does descriptor redirection seem inconsistent?
program dumps data to stdout fast. looking for way to write commands without getting flooded
sed regex-replace of a log file
redirect log outputs to another terminal
controlling shell  wildcard expansion in c or c++
single dash vs double dash for long options in *nix  programs - best practices?
running command-line tool created with python
specifying  parameters in c via bash
automatically cancel binary execution when certain output is detected
automatically cancel binary execution when certain output is detected
bash redirection with a result of another command
on the lack of "int main(int argc, char* argv leftsquarebrc  rightsquarebrc )" knowledge
on the lack of "int main(int argc, char* argv leftsquarebrc  rightsquarebrc )" knowledge
: how to use the content of a text file as an input argument to a program in windows?
piping strings from program output
on the lack of "int main(int argc, char* argv leftsquarebrc  rightsquarebrc )" knowledge
on the lack of "int main(int argc, char* argv leftsquarebrc  rightsquarebrc )" knowledge
bash erases the output file before executing the command
how can i fork two programs to the background using one line of bash and possibly an ampersand?
redirecting output of a c program to another c program with a bash script under linux
redirecting output of a c program to another c program with a bash script under linux
nokia n900 - meego linux - xterminal - shell script - keep process alive
nokia n900 - meego linux - xterminal - shell script - keep process alive
extraction of data from a simple xml file
how to get exit status of piped command from inside the pipeline?
ftp shell script breaks up after the lcd-command
is there a way to package bash shell scripts with applescriptobjc app on macosx with xcode?
yii command tool not work
finding number of child processes
find number of gnome-terminal tabs currently open by window id
parsing output of "top" command (shell) with php
how to remove the searching pid from this ?
use awk to search within a string and return result as variable
why are commands executed in backquotes giving me different results when done in as script?
how to get the pid of a process by giving the process name  x ?
why are commands executed in backquotes giving me different results when done in as script?
find out how much ssh-connections currently exist
ps forrest for session id
ps forrest for session id
small sh script to log processes ram and cpu usage
finding process count  via 
how to autostart jobs when using zsh
bash output different from 
how to continue executing the next other commands after using "kill" ?
what do i do instead of grep'ing the output of ps?
using bash ps and cut together
unix -killing pid and passing argument in ksh
use pstree inside awk command
kill a process with a certain value in the command lying between a specific range
shell script to check status of another script and restart it
how to determine the exact character of a whitespace ?
how to determine the exact character of a whitespace ?
shell command to find a process id and attach to it?
why are some processes shown in pstree not shown in ps -ef?
set the pid of a searched running process (ps -ea | grep  leftanglebrc search rightanglebrc }) 
bash stacktrace
getting the result of ps -ef as a variable
getting the result of ps -ef as a variable
how to invoke and terminate all background looping scripts from c program in ubuntu?
problem removing duplicate files using awk
getting pids from ps -ef |grep keyword
parsing ps and grep output 
pass awk output as input to another script
how can i using pattern matching on field aready in an awk statement?
awk script to parse output of ps command
why does ps o/p list the grep process after the pipe?
bash: how to avoid displaying the last line in grep?
how to get only process id in specify process name ?
multiple grep search/ignore patterns
active processes running except the current process
check if program is running with bash shell script?
bash - weird characters comming out from a pipe
inline if shell script
how to stop running script by using different script
how to automate reverse tunnel in with crontab: syntax error
how to automate reverse tunnel in with crontab: syntax error
how to change some symbols (e.g. "space") to other symbol /shell
avoid grep returning error when input doesn't match
avoid grep returning error when input doesn't match
redirect pgrep to a file twice in a single command
why does ps o/p list the grep process after the pipe?
why does ps o/p list the grep process after the pipe?
bash: how to avoid displaying the last line in grep?
trying to kill process by shell scripting
trying to kill process by shell scripting
how to run perl program automatic when the perl program isn't running?
killing the process with pid using a single line
killing series of processes
multiple grep search/ignore patterns
linux command get tomcat process id by name
very complex shell string with a lot of quotes , how to deal with escape
check on terminal for xampp apache and mysql service has started or not
check on terminal for xampp apache and mysql service has started or not
check on terminal for xampp apache and mysql service has started or not
shell script to capture process id and kill it if exist
find the pid(s) of running processes and store as an array
bash process substitution can't work fine with tee
get pid of last started instance of a certain process
bash process substitution can't work fine with tee
text parse using awk or sed . extract a port number
bash process substitution can't work fine with tee
problem removing duplicate files using awk
array length in ksh always return 1 and why array is not lines
cutting the last 3 digits in awk
bash script giving undesired output
bash script giving undesired output
sorting by integer value
sorting by integer value
integer expression expected  leftsquarebrc bash does not understand . rightsquarebrc 
write a background process to check process is still active
how to list each process from ps aux, if they repeat, keep a running count and format
small sh script to log processes ram and cpu usage
extracting strings from output  console
how to get process id from process name?
how to get process id from process name?
how to get process id from process name?
bash generic "ps aux" process by strict name
kill all pid files in a folder
how to know how long a process has been running?
getting uptime from port number 
parse/format ps -eo etime in minutes?
parse/format ps -eo etime in minutes?
 to get the memory used by process
get process's cpu, thread, vsize, and rsize x
how to display the current process tree of a bash session?
displaying userids for system proccesses 
get the username and the process id of a process 
displaying userids for system proccesses 
displaying userids for system proccesses 
bash script inside here document not behaving as expected
bash script inside here document not behaving as expected
scripting with unix to get the processes run by users
scripting with unix to get the processes run by users
shell script to kill a process
multiple sequential jobs in a shell script to be cronned in a conditional manner
shell script to kill a process
how to choose the first result on shell script
bash out processes from a range
parse and find information of process with uid in ksh or bash
process group id 
how can i get the parent script's name?
shell script: how to compare process running time against a theshold?
feel confuse on awk regular expression match digit  leftsquarebrc 0-9 rightsquarebrc 
shell script: how to compare process running time against a theshold?
bash: how do i stop bash from mindlessly writing millions of lines to console once it has begun?
bash: how do i stop bash from mindlessly writing millions of lines to console once it has begun?
how to find a parent id if child id is given 
unable to fetch the process information using shell script
unable to fetch the process information using shell script
unable to fetch the process information using shell script
check memory per processes and subprocesses
check if bash script was invoked from a shell or another script/application
check if bash script was invoked from a shell or another script/application
how to get session id for process using terminal in os x?
how to parse netstat command in order to get process name and pid from it?
what is wrong with this command?
linux / bash, using ps -o to get process by specific name?
using sed and pstree to display the type of terminal being used
is there a linux command to block until a process exits?
is there a linux command to block until a process exits?
using sed and pstree to display the type of terminal being used
using sed and pstree to display the type of terminal being used
how can i get the cpu usage and memory usage of a single process on linux (ubuntu)?
how to get to know whether the linux process is running
how to get rid of the headers in a ps command  x ?
how to get rid of the headers in a ps command  x ?
how to find whether a script run as a nohup finished or not?
pass awk output as input to another script
want to alter field separator to allow spaces in particular data field
cpu utilization on unix
how to find the  of a process only if the process is from current user
the number of processes a user is running using bash
parse and find information of process with uid in ksh or bash
want to alter field separator to allow spaces in particular data field
delete everything except the content of a specific index of each line using sed or awk
name of running threads inside a process
getting amount of memory processes usage from 'ps aux' output with awk in mb
how to get pid with only app name
getting memory usage from 'ps aux' output with awk
getting memory usage from 'ps aux' output with awk
awk: print first line of file before reading lines
linux ps aux command
how to get the distinct line in the output?
how to sleep for 1 second between each xargs command?
check if mac process is running using bash by process name
how to get watch to run a bash script with quotes
how to kill background task from another session?
what do i do instead of grep'ing the output of ps?
check ps aux process
mac osx, bash, awk, and negative look behind
ps aux auto close app
how do i store the output of a bash command in a variable?
how to kill all processes matching a name
how to feed the output of one pipe to another pipe?
why "if $(ps aux | grep ...)" always succeeds ?
run constant number of php scripts on server
ps aux | grep returns pid for itself too
ps aux | grep returns pid for itself too
linux command to check if a shell script is running or not
eclipse  build
how to transform multiple line into one line  stdout?
enabling usenuma flag for hadoop?
how to kill background task from another session?
bash execute command in variable
linux shell scripting kiddie's question
bash: if/else statement in one line
bash: if/else statement in one line
redirect the output to two processes and merge
redirect the output to two processes and merge
redirect the output to two processes and merge
redirect the output to two processes and merge
awk: print first line of file before reading lines
getting two regex matches from one command
kill processes run in directory (recursive)
kill processes run in directory (recursive)
bash out processes from a range
how to correct this awk code without eval?
bash prompt - exit meaning
using awk to capture first line of a multiline output?
how to find/kill a specific python program
shell script to stop a java program
how to get ps to print group?
lisiting all pids
lisiting all pids
bash script to check multiple running processes
bash: split output of command by columns
how to change shell to dash from bash
piping output to cut
piping output to cut
how can i script genymotion emulator to launch a given avd, headless?
checking for total memory usage in a bash script which spawns other processes
parse ps etime output into seconds
checking for total memory usage in a bash script which spawns other processes
how to get ps to print group?
how to get ps to print group?
how to get ps to print group?
pkill kills sshd process started by other user in parent shell
escape single quotes ssh remote command
ps forrest for session id
how to kill a process i ran from a disconnected ssh
best way to kill all child processes
how can bash script do the equivalent of ctrl-c to a background task?
process grep with pipe returns itself. how do i exclude it?
process grep with pipe returns itself. how do i exclude it?
how do i display rvm's current ruby and gemset in the terminal prompt?
how do i display rvm's current ruby and gemset in the terminal prompt?
downloading all the files in a directory with curl
ssh to run shell script on remote machine and then copy the output to local machine
to run shell script ( with parameters) on windows  via putty.exe
download a database sql file from the server
psexec exited with error code 1 - double quotes
sleep command in batch file?
postgresql - filter database list
can i switch user in vagrant bootstrap shell script?
restore a postgres backup file using the ?
automating install and creation of postgresql databases 
automating install and creation of postgresql databases 
bash shell script to execute pgsql commands in files
bash script - if statement within quoted command
store postgresql result  variable
postgres password less connection not working from shell script
postgres password less connection not working from shell script
how to use slash commands outside the database?
how to create a variable in a bash script that contains the data from a postgres database
shell script and sql results
bash shell script to execute pgsql commands in files
customize pager in psql
how to check if a postgres user exists?
how to check if a postgres user exists?
import whole file as one string
how to add/use a variable to my bashrc file?
how can i limit output to the terminal width
how can i limit output to the terminal width
problem executing a class when using php cli
what is the advantage of model-view-controller (mvc) over model-view?
problem executing a class when using php cli
how to debug a python module that needs to be executed with -m?
how to cron purge on mac os lion?
null free shellcode
how to pipe pwd into pushd
how to pipe pwd into pushd
change directory in batch file using variable
batch file echo not working after pushd command
batch file iterating through files on a local network server
enter shared location through a 
bash script from codesourcery arm-2011.03 can't find grep or sed
bash script from codesourcery arm-2011.03 can't find grep or sed
how send file to ftp server to the same name?
sftp inline put without interaction
edit multiple lines of a file locally and then rename multiple times- linux
edit multiple lines of a file locally and then rename multiple times- linux
why is $path in ruby shell different than $path in term?
escaping #  line argument
process list of files to format filenames for web (easy)
expect scripting - extracting userid
ruby: how to issue cli commands on windows
escape php variable in sed command from ruby script
using awk inside ssh from ruby
how to convert decimal to hex and send hex using expect(tcl) script
scripts to log in into another terminal in putty
bash piping pv - move file and (un)tar
how to make this "action-packed, random data" being echoed in a terminal?
measure local sockets speed?
how to add progress bar to a somearchive.tar.xz extract
bash piping pv - move file and (un)tar
saving grep's result to a variable
saving grep's result to a variable
save last working directory on bash logout
how to assign the output of a shell command to a variable?
how to assign the output of a shell command to a variable?
how do i learn how to get quoting right ?
setting the ld_preload environment variable for commands run without typing the full path
bash: current directory variable
why do i get different bash script results when invoked with 'set -x', and how do i fix it?
why do i get different bash script results when invoked with 'set -x', and how do i fix it?
store a variable 
method to write in log files in a shell script
changing ksh dir when exiting bash mode
find file by name up the directory tree, using bash
reliable way for a bash script to get the full path to itself?
how to delete all files from current directory including current directory?
python's argv and bash?
cutting a string into several lines 
how to find a section of current directory path using regex in a bash function
extract the last directory of a pwd output
cutting a string into several lines 
shell script: check directory name and convert to lowercase
how to copy to the clipboard the current path?
how to enable user account smb sharing from terminal on mac os x?
how to enable user account smb sharing from terminal on mac os x?
grepping string from long text
grepping string from long text
finding particular character in a line 
how to handle error when exit code is zero 
how to convert a source code text file (e.g. asp php js) to jpg with syntax highlight using  / bash routine?
why isn't  leftanglebrc  working to read in a file from the  (simple python code)?
how to make a bash script portable on osx
shell script syntax error when trying to activate a virtualenv and execute a python script in it
shell script syntax error when trying to activate a virtualenv and execute a python script in it
run all python files in a directory
shell script can not save output from  into variable
shell script can not save output from  into variable
bash: do different actions depending on python version installed
how to append output of "python --version" to a file ?
cannot assign the output of "python -v" to a variable 
cannot assign the output of "python -v" to a variable 
xargs - use eof as delimeter
if statements and one line python scripts from 
python -c and `while`
how do i escape bash keywords that match up with python keywords?
generating petsc binary file using python
calling a python function from bash script
executing python multi-line statements in the one-line command-line
python as "perl -pe", execute python command for every line in stdin
how can i make this one-liner work in dos?
how can i make this one-liner work in dos?
python: run function from the 
python: run function from the 
generating permutations using bash
generate text file from set of character
get ceiling integer from number  (bash)
encoding issue for python tool unidecode on cl
capture command output inside zsh function
bash script for mythtv which requires python dependencies
importing python module from the bash
awk field separator , when the separator shows up in double quote
python: run function from the 
how to print a python function return value ?
how to read a property value of json file located local on ubuntu terminal
how to add text to python calculation?
importing python module from the bash
malformed environment variables detection in python
how to make a gui  scripts?
get list of python module variables 
how can you access an environment variable that has a space in its name ?
sed to replace secret_key in django settings file, introduces garbage
why does popen.terminate() terminate subprocess run with command interpreter (cmd.exe) on windows?
osx: check if the screen is locked
python equivalent to perl -pe?
how can a shell function know if it is running within a virtualenv?
, how can i get the absolute path of the python binary i am using from the ?
identifying common elements in multiple files
calling a python function from a shell script
calling a python function from a shell script
calling a python function from a shell script
calling a python function from a shell script
bash not recognising python command
searching a column in a unix file?
python -c bash swtich newline
executing output of python from loop 
evaluating a mathematical expression stored as a string, into a single number (bash)
run matlab in batch mode
how to enumerate unique characters in a utf-8 document? with sed?
generating petsc binary file using python
simple script to convert unicode
writing unicode to file 
python file testing line  program failing with syntax error
generating petsc binary file using python
can python shell have some pre-input?
run interpreter after execute bash python
leave variables in memory after execution
how to execute a python script and leave open a shell for further testing in vim
how do i efficiently pretty-print a list of json objects?
simple file server to serve current directory
simple file server to serve current directory
estimating network i/o speed using scp
multiple -m  arguments (python)
python possible to debug without modifying code
one line ftp server
how to run a python script portably without specifying its full path
what does it mean  scripts? #!/usr/bin/python -tt
how to write script output to file and command-line?
php - capturing and displaying exec/shell_exec periodic output?
handling python io from within java
python script prints output of os.system before print
redirect python script output to grep
keep python script running and continue bash script? (mac osx)
why i got "sh: 1: syntax error: unterminated quoted string" when i run my python program?
executing / running a python script from ubuntu server
python script called from bash does nothing
how to run python programs from command promt on windows?
sorting through numbered files for program execution
exporting console output to a .txt doesn't work
how can i recognise the argv correctly in python cmd?
how can i recognise the argv correctly in python cmd?
linux bash script running multiple python
parsing  parameters
awk and cat - how to ignore multiple lines?
why can't i interact with redis-cli via fabric?
script doesn't want to run from python shell
shell script to run task and shutdown after task is done
execute python script with function from , linux
count multiple tabs tsv file
inserting filename into last column of csv file.
what to send the email from cron job without writing to file?
parsing and replacing some strings in two files
assigning value to shell variable using a function return value from python
why does output redirection not work in this case?
execute command inside django
run "python manage.py runserver" from a bash script
run "python manage.py runserver" from a bash script
write the initial django sql to a file?
escaping bash 'test' keywork in a bash script
redirecting django manage.py output (in windows) to a text file
python csv reader: how to pipe output to another script using 
using linux redirect to overwrite file from python script
how to pass file contents to a python script on windows
makefile that gives permission to my python script?
makefile that gives permission to my python script?
running a program in debug without hard coding debug = true in python
how can i give parameters to a function of a python script through the command-line?
writing a python script to execute with a console command
fool python's os.isatty from a bash script
python:  arguments are incorrect
correct way to write to pipe line by line in python
parsing \  argument - python 2.7.3
shell script: execute a python program from within a shell script
is there a python library that allows to easily print ascii-art text?
keyboard shortcut for stopping all programs, which ran parallely?
passing a list to python from 
call python script from bash with argument
redirecting test output
redirecting test output
what's the best way to grab/parse  arguments passed to a python script?
what's the best way to grab/parse  arguments passed to a python script?
using argparse to parse arguments of form "arg= val"
how can i process  arguments in python?
using argparse to parse arguments of form "arg= val"
netcat : is there a way to send a continuous stream from a command output to a remote listener
how to repeatedly pipe input between commands until condition on output applies?
ensuring programs run in ordered sequence
linux how to print all the files with the same prefix after searching for them?
python import library from tar.gz?
use two pipelines for python input file argument and stdin streaming
passing empty string to argparse
temporary pythonpath in windows
store return value of a python script in a bash script
passing multple files with asterisk to python shell in windows
why sys.path doesn't contain cwd()?
python in windows : programming from the 
variable , is it an array?
bash - get output from non-blocking command
how to run python file in cron job
how to debug a python module that needs to be executed with -m?
is it possible to execute a python program between backticks in a shell command?
can i pass "\t" to python from the ?
using an alias to call a python script
return code of sed for no match
string comparison not working in powershell function - what am i doing wrong?
string comparison not working in powershell function - what am i doing wrong?
setting default with getopts 
bash awk command giving error in hadoop guide
how to lock my monitor with command ?
read command 
parse qmake output from bash script
bind to escape sequence
read commands from text file and run it in qshell
how to get information about a cluster?
how to get information about a cluster?
bash for loop syntax error with pipe
delete jobs by grepping qstat output and sending jobid to qdel?
count occurences of string in output from qstat
capture job id of a job submitted by qsub
how to specify error log file and output file in qsub
$sge_task_id not getting set with qsub array grid job
pass string argument in qsub
pass string argument in qsub
pass string argument in qsub
how to automatically run a bash script when my qsub jobs are finished on a server?
unix: for loop using strings
awk substr several times in a row
awk substr several times in a row
bash script array to csv
how to parse rackspace big data api response using shell scripting
how to parse rackspace big data api response using shell scripting
rails: is there a way to add associations via the ?
on unix, find if user who executed the program is root?
bash variable set at the end of a rake command
unable to understand zsh error while executing rake command
syntax for changing activerecord data type on 
heroku: upload single unversioned file
running rails runner with some parameters
loading spec.opts when testing pure ruby program
how do i execute a python script from the  using custom commands?
bash script number generator
create a rar archive for each subdirectory in a directory - centos/ubuntu
rar move files from subfolder to root by command
using bash to get the files rar creates
save command-prompt results to a textfile
bash __git_ps1 command not found
how to empty recyclebin through command prompt?
home directory expansion (~) within an argument
bash script, read values from stdin pipe
create variable with name of other variable
make user input loop variables 
adding a non-root user with bash - adduser vs useradd
linux - get text from second tab
, how do i convert a space-delimited string into an array?
linux bash script get user input and store in a array
linux bash script get user input and store in a array
populate words in each line in the file into temporary array
extracting numbers from file
why getting the characters of a file list returns me also the files and folders of the current directory?
proper way to keep array from pipe bash
bash print first to nth column in a line iteratively
assign values to dynamic arrays
how can i read a variable line by line?
read array element from stdin with space delimited number 
is there an "escape converter" for file and directory names available?
bash scripting - read single keystroke including special keys enter and space
extracting numbers from file
python or bash print output to  ready to be executed
shell script to login into a website
storing multiple responses 
shell script: issue in prompting for user input
get autocompletion when invoking a read inside a bash script
bash read command
unix find a file and then prompting to delete
automatic update data file and display?
how to check if a file contains only zeros in a linux shell?
how do i read any one key ?
bash read backspace button behavior problem
break line in read -p 
read command : display the prompt in color (or enable interpretation of backslash escapes)
bash  leftanglebrc read rightanglebrc  printing new lines, how to prevent
bash  leftanglebrc read rightanglebrc  printing new lines, how to prevent
how to prompt for input when stdin is occupied?
bash read and stderr redirection
how can i read an ip address from the user in a bash script?
, "read -e -r" is showing ls for a tab, tab press on the same line, not a new line when the input begins with \
server information script hangs on read
read command : display the prompt in color (or enable interpretation of backslash escapes)
bash script to capture input, run commands, and print to file
prompting for mysqldump password in a bash script?
how to detect on waiting for user input from bash script?
how can i prompt for yes/no style confirmation in a zsh script?
bash string to array with ifs
shell script respond to keypress
bash: nested interactive read within a loop that's also using read
saving the first line - linux shell scripting
read variable from awk
how to keep backslash when reading from a file?
set a variable with information inside a file
recursively replace colons with underscores 
bash fails to parse quoted string output from backtic expression
escape replacement string 'read' from user
need bash shell script for reading name value pairs from a file
how to read entire line from bash
replacing bash variables in a stream
bash script using sed to delete specific line doesn't work
passing two values from awk to bash
how do i split a list of unquoted paths with embedded spaces into individual paths?
how to make the input file of my program start from the 3rd line?
bash shell read error: 0: resource temporarily unavailable
getting pid value over ssh, doesn't work until exit
how to read 1 symbol in zsh?
prompting for mysqldump password in a bash script?
converting read variables to lowercase
using read -p in a bash script that was executed from pipe
sleep duration manipulation in performing repitative bash command
'read' not timing out when reading from pipe 
why `read -t` is not timing out  on rhel?
bash script quitting after 30 minutes of inaction
bash script, execute shell from another shell and assign results to a variable
how to read a file content in ash into an argument?
assign the result of a mathematical calculation to a variable without a subshell
how to parse a file with one line 
how to assign the output of a command to a variable?
time command output on an already running process
isolate the last octet from an ip address and put it in a variable
how can i read an ip address from the user in a bash script?
how to grep hh:mm for the first occurance for each line
are all files in a collection a, accounted for in a differently structured collection b?
are all files in a collection a, accounted for in a differently structured collection b?
how to find a parent id if child id is given 
unable to fetch the process information using shell script
trying to create a bash function
redirecting input for read command 
redirecting input for read command 
bash coproc and leftover coproc output
bash coproc and leftover coproc output
removing line that contains more than one word
extract fields to variable
linux bash: multiple variable assignment
awk: return value to shell script
loop through data & assign variables 
how to create multiple reg files using linux regex
error while using while read; do grep
cartesian product of two files (as sets of lines) in gnu/linux
how to read input from the user in a bash subshell
how to store elements to an array 
integer comparison  using if-else
how to process only one column and convert unix time in text file 
manipulating user input
how do i cause my computer to use lot of ram?
how do i cause my computer to use lot of ram?
how to process only one column and convert unix time in text file 
how to escape special characters?
how to grep for a pattern in the files in tar archive without filling up disk space
interactive shell script
bash -- setting multiple variables in a single pipeline stage
bash dynamic variables conflict
bash: only last iteration of loop index not being stored as new element of array
merge lines matching a regex from another file
moving file pointer after reading a line from a file
why empty line is not getting stored in variable
clarification regarding bash shell script
bash - how to pipe input to while loop and perserve variables after loop ends
read input  inside a while loop
quick way to scan from list
how do i handle whitespace in filenames in a for loop?
how to read using "read" from file descriptor 3  script?
how to repeatedly pipe input between commands until condition on output applies?
how to repeatedly pipe input between commands until condition on output applies?
where is the syntax `while ifs= read line` documented?
operand expected (error token is "-") and ambiguous redirect
spellcheck each line
test existence of files 
passing values of one file into another file as inputs
use the output of a cat command in execution (bash)
concating string with shell script with accumulator
unix - split to n files using regexp to name destination file
echo from lines of a file
bash: echo from command while it's executing
read line by line from a variable ing
how can i echo/print specific lines from a bash variable
use external file with variables
error building scp command syntax in read loop
error building scp command syntax in read loop
mkdir command for a list of filenames paths
how to escape special characters?
what's wrong about this bash one-liner?
how to inhibit line breaks when calling echo several times in a row
what's wrong about this bash one-liner?
how to get files as they are added to a remote server
how to get files as they are added to a remote server
results of wc as variables
storing text and numeric variable from file to use in perl script
extract month and day from linux "date" command
how can i save "read " error output ?
linux bash: delete the word whose length is less than 2
removing line numbers with sed
why does a change in arithmetic expression change behaviour of ctrl-d  script?
how do i use a post-receive hook to conditionally run commands depending on the branch updated?
bash: backup script runs on shell exit
how to separate a 10-digit phone number into two parts
make user input loop variables 
explanation of bash calculator code
unzip list of files that are specified in txt files
return two variables in awk
mv command giving me are the same file error
adding a non-root user with bash - adduser vs useradd
shell script problem: does not work on the terminal, but works in a script
shell script printing out "read: missing arguments"
how to assign specific line from another file to a variable 
"piping" values into bash variables
print a dash if grep not found
how to select the nth char from a string for each line in a file?
send text file, line by line, with netcat
piping files  for "wc" while retaining filename
bash script to kill screens with the same name
read: illegal option -d
why 'getopts' within a function fails to work?
how do i get the name of the file being passed in as a  argument in ksh or bash?
bash: split up loop based on number of enumerations to process several files
how to create a dynamic variable array name and fill it with multi-line text  script
bash ? appears when array is created from readarray but not manually declared
how to assign output of find into array
how do i keep empty lines while reading a command into a bash array?
output $(rpm -va) to array with spaces intact
how to get array of services 
script that uses variable username in find command
how to write an array ignoring space characters ing?
assign output of command to global array without losing the array after subshell
bash script not getting piped data
unix script using sed
how to use gnu utils to select one line from these three lines?
command for retrieving for which architecture a library was built
press alt + numeric  and you get (arg  leftsquarebrc numeric rightsquarebrc ) what is that?
how to determine which directory a link is pointing to using bash
how to evaluate a given path within a bash shell
how to resolve a symbolic link to a parent directory in a shell script?
how to get the directory where shell script resides?
readlink -f with spaces
transform path with ".." elements to absolute path, in a script?
how do i readlink a path from a variable?
is there a way in a shell script to figure out where its output is redirected?
running a bash script from a different location but referencing where the script is located
whats the command to quickly get the fulllpath of a given file?
how do i get the absolute directory of a file ?
how to convert ".." in path names to absolute name in a bash script?
how to refer to redirection file from within a bash script?
how to make a function readonly
how do i declare a constant variable ?
design patterns or best practices for shell scripts
tcsh script full path
 parameters separated by null character
using a variable to define a path
linux script unexpected end of file error
bash script send email recipient from reading. txt file
redis: who is eating my field when piping llen results through awk?
loop through lines in file and send to redis-cli
why can't i interact with redis-cli via fabric?
how to use reg_expand_sz from the commandline?
query internet explorer version from  does not always work?
how to find microsoft office path from 
why %processor_architecture% always returns x86 instead of amd64
detect if running with administrator privileges under windows xp
vbs registry backup working in win7, but not in xp
non-greedy regular expression match for multicharacter delimiters in awk
bash-shell script revise and suggestion
how to execute a python script on a server using ansible?
bourne-shell find-remove
bash: replace array value with curl result
rename dos command
changing file name and location with 
changing file name and location with 
batch rename files that start with '-'?
using util-linux rename command
underscore in rename command (perl and unix shell)
auto file names using awk
auto file names using awk
mac os x terminal batch rename
linux shell script to remove digits
bash replace the right part of a filename
how to rename sequential files so they start from zero?
glob renaming 
removing 10 characters of filename 
renaming files 
bash rename using regex array substitution
bash rename using regex array substitution
rename multiple file with same extension in a directory
change file extensions of multiple files in a directory with terminal/bash?
one liner  (using perl or awk) to change extension of multiple files?
using sed to mass rename files
moving files with different file name
rename part of filename
error "the syntax of the command is incorrect" when renaming a file
batch rename files in sequence
how to remove a specific number from file with bash
renaming a bunch of files 
renaming files using regex?
rename multiple files shell
batch rename files in sequence
how to change names of all directories / files containing a specific string on linux
bash script help - convert bunch of .lit files to .txt files, remove spaces in file names
batch file rename based on pattern 
bash removing part of a file name
shell script to rename multiple files from their parent folders name
how to rename many files url escaped (%xx) to human readable form
bash replace the right part of a filename
rename multiple files from 
bach linux file rename - how to rename multiple files  console
remove substring from filename
bash scripts to rename file name based on nth occurence
bash rename files script not working
renaming multiple files in one line of shell
using sed to mass rename files
rename part of filename
rename all '.' to '_' in a filename except for the extension
rename all '.' to '_' in a filename except for the extension
unix: how to change all hidden folders/files to visible in a directory
rename multiple file with same extension in a directory
one liner  (using perl or awk) to change extension of multiple files?
sed removing spaces before and after something
replace all characters between parenthesis
batch rename files
linux batch rename directories and strip caracter # from name
renaming files with adding a number to filename 
renaming files  terminal
unable to convert dot-files to non-dotfiles safely
how to split file with a trick 
how to batch-rename files by date?
rename multiple sequentially numbered files and change numbering format using bash?
rename multiple sequentially numbered files and change numbering format using bash?
rename multiple files shell
replace a string in the file name 
removing 10 characters of filename 
batch renaming files  and rollback
regular expression one liner that knows if a substitute variable is filled
bash script to change file extension using regex
how to modify file names 
remove the first word in filename 
replace incorrectly displayed special chars 
how to renice a pid dynamically?
echo to standard input or stdin
echo to standard input or stdin
sed replacement does not work
print new line with sed using variable
how do i manipulate $path elements s?
sed escaping from inside ruby
sed escaping from inside ruby
how to redirect repo sync output into a file
capture stdin / stderr / stdout of a process after it's been started, using ? -- solved: reptyr 
nodejs / curl : change req
from rubymine to mac command-line app?
idle like interactive console for ruby
how do i add a gem in heroku?
why does "locate filename | xargs vim" cause strange terminal behaviour?
while statement ignoring response value
store average time from ping command in ruby on rails
how to restart portal server without start and stop
parse text using bash/python
how to use 'coproc' to interact with another command driven program
sed: syntax error with unexpected "("
stacking standard output of `su`
find folders without a specific file in them
capturing shell script response code in python script
how to find/replace and increment a matched number with sed/awk?
function fails but works at cli as oneliner
keeping a c  app running in mac application bundle
shell script + short syntax to verify valid ip
exchange the position of two string through bash
using  to remove text?
awk/sed convert positive value to negative in a semicolon separated file
linux cut command - capture string between multiple positions
linux cut command - capture string between multiple positions
segmentation fault 11, zcat pipe into postgresql 9.0.5 (lion) 
grep script to run on cd
jenkins execute shell is escaping -- characters
bad named links search and replace
how to use sed replace string pattern with backslash
vi mode for redis-cli
how to remove files starting with a particular letter
how to properly form rm with xargs -a?
shell command/script to delete files whose names are in a text file
how do i insert the results of several commands on a file as part of my sed stream?
what are replacement and new practices from sh to bash?
ls: grep files with name pattern into one line
ls: grep files with name pattern into one line
delete lines from shell script
how do make dependency generation work for c? (also..decode this sed/make statement!)
shell programming, lopping thorugh files
how to get output of a bash command in a variable
how to delete files like 'incoming11781rkd'
how can i remove everything except listed files with the find-command?
bash: reading files and moving into sub-directory
bash: delete until a specific file
how to store the actual name of a /*url*?
shell append order ( rightanglebrc  rightanglebrc )
passing  arguments from xargs
from shell: delete all files with apostrophes
how to add wait time after a statement before execution of next statement 
single command to remove files that have a '3' in them
how to delete all files with certain suffix before file extension
self-deleting shell script
error of bash string concatenation
how to remove files starting with double hyphen?
how to delete file named "-d" (mac osx) from ?
how do i deal with a filename that starts with the hyphen (-) character?
how to remove a file whose name starts with '-'
bash scripting: deleting the oldest directory
linux delete files batch script
understanding a shell script code using expand function
understanding a shell script code using expand function
match backed up files (`*~`)
bash: dealing with filenames in pipes and ifr
delete a list of file/directory names
linux -how to delete all files in a directory with out using find
linux -how to delete all files in a directory with out using find
linux -how to delete all files in a directory with out using find
removing all files from a folder with by searching for a string 
removing all files from a folder with by searching for a string 
concatenate files and remove source file
how does one suppress the output of a command?
how does one suppress the output of a command?
how can i delete files named by numbers?
file names with spaces as bulk arguments
what is causing "directory not empty" errors?
deleting content of folder with shell script
how to set bash next bash operation input equal to the output of the prvious operation?
unix script to filter files
how can i remove specific file types?
how to set bash next bash operation input equal to the output of the prvious operation?
bash error echo a command
remove last visited directory in terminal
bash to search and delete?
remove 
remove 
how to delete all files from current directory including current directory?
remove 
odd behaviour in removing .git
clearing chrome's cache, cookies, etc via ? (osx)
clearing chrome's cache, cookies, etc via ? (osx)
error in git install from source on ubuntu
i'm not using rvm correctly - 'forgets' information on new session
empty a folder with a system command with php
create a batch file which remove folder in my desktop - mac
return no errors on  syntax
delete files from a folder based on another file
linux : how to delete multiple files at once?
linux : how to delete multiple files at once?
moving a directory atomically
shell script delete folders older than n days
shell script delete folders older than n days
delete invisible directory after a git clone
how to use rm to recursively remove all dirs starting with a prefix
delete non git directory in git bash, windows
copying moving deleting directories  with array and/or numerically
get number of files acted upon by bash commands
remove a file from usr/include?
delete the connection and every file under the svn on the server
uninstall node.js using linux ?
delete folder that contain subfolders and files on linux
deleting files from inside bash while loop
rm cannot delete files starting with --
i accidentally created a file called / and another call --reporter, how do i delete them?
how to delete file named "-d" (mac osx) from ?
how to remove a file whose name starts with '-'
scp download multiple files from multiple directories
android system properties - unsetting them on the 
copying from mount share drive to local folder through script
copying from mount share drive to local folder through script
bash doesn't parse quotes when converting a string to arguments
bash stacktrace
delete files with a length of x or more characters
remove all files that start with same prefix, but differente filetype
bash command to delete all but last 5 directories
bash command to delete all but last 5 directories
why doesnt rm doesnt work as i expect here?
shell script to delete a set of files
unix - delete files only from directory
remove file from different directory
exec() any command in c
how to prevent rm from reporting that a file was not found?
bash: how to trap the error reason?
how to check if file exists without the full name of the file
ls: grep files with name pattern into one line
saving current directory to bash history
suppress shell script error messages
strip the last and first character from a string
how does one suppress the output of a command?
how does one suppress the output of a command?
interchanging two programs inputs and outputs
how can i delete files named by numbers?
unix sftp issue
how does this bash function for removing all but some files work?
remove files from one folder that contained in another folder
what is causing "directory not empty" errors?
getting android sdk version of a device from 
how to show certain column of a record using sed
how to show certain column of a record using sed
move files to non existing directory from the 
how do i sync two local file structures
is xcopy the fastest tool to copy folders/files over windows file system?
how do i log output of a shell script and also display on the screen?
how would you expand this script to handle numbers larger than 255?
winscp connect to amazon ami ec2 instance changing user after login to "root"
view the $path variable of other users
bash: rename command not working on subdirectories when used with find
how do i split a pathname-like string for use in a makefile?
alternative to awk
bash script doesn't work as cronjob
how to pass long strings for search and replace in a bash, sed, or rpl script?
return code of the command before the pipe
how to remove all packages from specific repo without dependencies
linux - bash - get $releasever and $basearch values?
linux - bash - get $releasever and $basearch values?
linux - bash - get $releasever and $basearch values?
checking for installed packages and if not found install
script to loop and copy all files from command output
linux - bash - get $releasever and $basearch values?
how to get the release value from an rpm -qi command
access to two or more file via read command on bash
insert rsh and module load in perl script
escaping pipe character in rsh
how i can pass argument to windows 2003 batch file and execute it from unix-aix and return value to unix-aix
how i can execute windows batch file from unix-aix?
concatenate posix file paths from a list
what's the best way to store files on a remote host as they are created and remove the originals?
how to use `scp` command copy a folder while not rewrite the local file with same name?
how to limit packets per second in rsync?
using rsync to dereference symlinks in shadow directories
sending stderr to logger
rsync over ssh get directory content only
unable to copy files from directory 
sync without scanning individual files?
rsync: provide a list of unsent files
exclude directories with a certain prefix using find
exclude certain directories from ls and copy the remaining over to a shared path
how do you get rsync to exclude any directory named cache?
how to emulate cp and mv --parent on osx
copy files while skipping over files that exist - unix
how to use rsync --list-only source to list all the files in that directory?
is it possible to make scp ignore symbolic links during copy?
using cron with ssh keys
create a dotted line status bar during a process
create a dotted line status bar during a process
unix/mac os x: use file list to copy files and folder keeping the directory structure
shell script - sftp - rightanglebrc  if copied, remove?
rsync without ssh access
why does `rsync  leftanglebrc ... rightanglebrc  /path/to/somedir /path/to/otherdir` leave me with `/path/to/otherdir/somedir`, not syncing files from `somedir` into `otherdir`?
rsync: provide a list of unsent files
bash scripting rsync: rsync: link_stat (blah) failed: no such file or directory (2)
how do you get rsync to exclude any directory named cache?
unable to rsync between my server and my mac
unable to rsync between my server and my mac
bash: copy named files recursively, preserving folder structure
cp --parents option on mac
reuse wildcard match 
backup files smaller than 100 kb
mv equivalent rsync command
rsync don't sync the sub folders?
copy files excluding some folder 
how to sync files' timestamps only?
ftp file transfers using piping safely
freenas rsync error: some files/attrs were not transferred (see previous errors) (code 23) at main.c(1053)  leftsquarebrc sender=3.0.9 rightsquarebrc 
best way to determine if an scp transfer fails
how do i delete folders  after successful copy (mac osx)?
rsync copying folder and contents instead of just contents on windows
how to change the owner for a rsync
do not show directories in rsync output
how can i recursively copy entire directories and exclude specific files with extention "min.min.js"
cp -r without hidden files
how do i exclude directories from an rsync that exist on both servers?
how to use rsync command exclude multiple folder
how to use rsync command exclude multiple folder
copy folder recursively, excluding some folders
rse rsync with option spectified format
how can i recursively copy same-named files from one directory structure to another ?
how to use 'cp' command to exclude a specific directory?
apply rsync options specific to a file
apply rsync options specific to a file
rsync to amazon ec2 instance
how do i create a directory on remote host if it doesn't exist without ssh-ing in?
a shell script to copy a folder and all it's subfolders, but noit it's files
running rsync in background
sheel script to move several files to different directory
how to compare contents of two directoriers ?
in terminal, merging multiple folders into one
rsync ssh recursive dry run error / no rsync on server
prevent rsync from deleting destination files that match a given pattern
rsync backup files to remote server with find command
recursively use scp but excluding some folders
shell: copy certain types of files keeping directory structure
is there an scp variant of mv command?
ftp shell script not working
how do i setup an rsync cron job to synchronize maildir?
how to get rsync to recognise ssh publickey when run from script (nodejs)
scp to rsync conversion
unexpected local arg: /rsync
how to use rsync to copy only specific subdirectories (same names in several directories)
how to use rsync to copy only specific subdirectories (same names in several directories)
bash (on mac) - how to a folder structure over with some conditions
rsync remote to local automatic backup
copy contents from directory1 to directory 2 replacing duplicates
in terminal, merging multiple folders into one
rsync folder from local system to server does not work
rsync folder from local system to server does not work
recurisve copy to relative destination paths
issues with running rsync command
how to move all files in the same directory except one into that one  ssh
using white spaces in an rsync file path excecuted in a batch file
how can i use rsync to backup files changed within a recent period?
rsync ssh recursive dry run error / no rsync on server
install command in osx and directory structure
rsync directories vs files
rsync directories vs files
is it possible to to rsync only files and passwords without .conf files
is it possible to to rsync only files and passwords without .conf files
use rsync to copy only hidden files
, how do i rename files that i transfered using rsync?
how locally backup files with rsync
os x run rsync under sudo using ssh_config
error out instead of asking for passphrase with ssh
rsync multiple remote directories to local machine preserving directory paths
what is the fastest and safest way to move an svn repository from one host to another?
rsync --delete --files-from=list / dest/ does not delete unwanted files
compare files in two directory on remote server using unix
rsync copies too many directories being executed via bash script
python rsync script directory names mirror
how to sync files in directory a from directory b?
rsync --delete --files-from=list / dest/ does not delete unwanted files
rsync --delete --files-from=list / dest/ does not delete unwanted files
rsync only directories that exist?
scp folder structure and only files with a specific extension
scp a folder to a remote system keeping the directory layout
bash -- rsync variable in filename has spaces
syncing local and remote directories using rsync+ssh+public key as a user different to the ssh key owner
using rsync to delete a single file
cp command should ignore some files
find and replace image files between two folders
using rsync command with email address
sending output of 2 rsync commands in a bash script
sending output of 2 rsync commands in a bash script
rsync permission denied created directories have no permissions
is it possible to specify a different ssh port when using rsync?
rsync is not syncing properly?
copy only the contents of a directory into another directory
how to execute shell script on two servers
rsync with folder and file name pattern matching to copy files
how to emulate 'cp --update' behavior on mac os x?
bash script  parameters beginning with hyphen are ignored
bash rsync exclude not working. possible error in syntax?
bash - how do i detect the file date time is changed so do a copy or move now once its done?
copy all files in directory except ".txt" and not to replace existing files
copy files that are different?
how to exclude symbolic links on the web server?
rsync copy over only certain types of files using include option
how can i efficiently move millions of files (100gb) to a new server?
rsync --include option does not exclude other files
rsync to get a list of only file names
rsync verbose with final stats but no file list
rsync to get a list of only file names
what is the difference between scp and rsync
does quitting putty close the running command
how to run multiple commands in one bash file?
rsync list of specific local files in 1 step
segmentation fault 11, zcat pipe into postgresql 9.0.5 (lion) 
copy lines based on matching pattern 
 options
bash merge multiple lines
ack commad not found error
issue with homebrew install on mac
how to install homebrew on mac osx
-bash curl command not found... where can i find it?
reversing groups of lines 
sed to add blanks in every line
use grep / sed for filename search & replace?
parsing html on the ; how to capture text in  leftanglebrc strong rightanglebrc  leftanglebrc /strong rightanglebrc ?
regex that doesn't work with sed
how to use external file as a source of variables  script file?
how to convert utf-8 to unicode
how to convert utf-8 to unicode
how can you access an environment variable that has a space in its name ?
shell execute from ruby
how to use external file as a source of variables  script file?
reverse text of third column
column to row translation using sed
combine file names and content
how to extract a value by name from "name value name value ..."-like input lines
include one file to another
perform math on one-line ruby script gsub regex captures
how to modfiy environment.rb through sh script? (i.e. modify line in file through script?)
parsing json to check whether a field is blank 
include files in a  with ruby
include files in a  with ruby
serve current directory from 
call ruby function from command-line
call ruby function from command-line
serve current directory from 
 options
 options
 options
run ruby script without invoking it directly
can't run "ruby -v" after install
how do i save a ruby file? (error)
why does this command fail when i use a #  args?
script to update bounding box in one eps with values from another eps
automate a command that needs to be run with thousands of different arguments
trouble with unix pipes
i want to make a shell command program in ruby for windows but everything is 
have ruby unit::test speak the results of the test
have ruby unit::test speak the results of the test
less time consuming options searching content of a file?
source from standard in (bash on osx)
autocomplete for the ruby command 
how to quote strings in file names in zsh (passing back to other scripts)
redirect output from a shell script to a file
redirect output from a shell script to a file
redirect output from a shell script to a file
load a series of sql files through capistrano
best way to rewrite urls in css files before production launch?
how to execute tcl scripts in tchsh with arguments
sudo will break importing my script
how to set font color for stdout and stderr
run code only if script called from the 
executing a batch script consecutively
how to suppress i/o error message for both terminal output and text log (tee)?
recieve and reply to sms on huawei modem, gammu-smsd: process failed with exit status 2
shell script: running cmd that was passed into a function
shell script: running cmd that was passed into a function
why doesn't my bash script allow me to enter the python shell?
how to transfer variables that have spaces from shell to oracle sqlplus
the "mkdir" command
 tool for print picture?
is it possible to launch ie's proxy settings dialog from the ?
bash string manipulation without a variable
does a runonce command exist to limit command execution
using rvm via integrity continuous integration
running a gem on cron with a specific version of ruby
no rails file in ~/.rvm/gems/ruby-2.1.0/bin
rvm environment load
ruby version manager broke my $path
error compiling ruby 1.9.3 using rvm, homebrew, or macports
can't run "ruby -v" after install
what tool runs during a "cd" and checks the .ruby_version file?
running a gem on cron with a specific version of ruby
issues with running a bash with an rvm environment
rails executable not working on yakuake app
can't run "ruby -v" after install
can't run "ruby -v" after install
ruby rvm under another user from bash script
i'm not using rvm correctly - 'forgets' information on new session
bash script using properties - prop is empty when adding chracters
what does  rightanglebrc | do ?
coffeescript - execute bash script with arguments
create a custom linux command for repetitive commands
php regex to fix hacked wordpress site
linux text file manipulation
sed unterminated `s' command in subprocess.call
regular expression, sed, path extraction
regexp greedness: shrinking long path
shell scripting. command substitution issue in my script
how to replace a path with another path in sed?
bash sed command failing to find and replace
sed and the odyssey of escaping a bash variable
what is this ruby/bash command performing?
need perl one-liner regex to get rid of the if condition syntax error from a shell script file
how to replace space with comma using sed?
how to find and replace on a specific amount of times?
removing all html tags from a webpage
help! how do you s/// " leftsquarebrc one rightsquarebrc  abc  leftsquarebrc two rightsquarebrc " into "x abc x"?
why does `\d` doesn't work in regular expression in sed
how to add a line break before each set of cjk characters ( leftsquarebrc \o200-\o377 rightsquarebrc ) with sed?
formating each string comming out of grep
how to replace all the blanks within square brackets with an underscore using sed?
regex replace: ' leftsquarebrc a-z rightsquarebrc '' to  leftsquarebrc a-z rightsquarebrc ' - i can't preserve the letter in in the string
regular expression - no capture for negative character class
how to specify an "or" in sed
getting number from row using sed
getting number from row using sed
need perl one-liner regex to get rid of the if condition syntax error from a shell script file
need perl one-liner regex to get rid of the if condition syntax error from a shell script file
need perl one-liner regex to get rid of the if condition syntax error from a shell script file
sed to replace only matching part in search string
sed to replace only matching part in search string
white spaces capturing with sed
upper- to lower-case using sed
sed regex substitute
at what stage is sed's pattern space printed?
escape single quote
formating each string comming out of grep
formating each string comming out of grep
formating each string comming out of grep
sed to wrap lines in text file?
scripting insertion of variable to config file
want to edit a file in place (substitute a column value) based on a value in another column in the same file
replace two newlines to one  
replace a string in the file name 
how can i get sed to remove `\` followed by anything?
find multible missing lines in csv using diff
regex to catch commented lines of a conf file
using sed to replace ^ leftsquarebrc (s3b with blank space
sed strip leading mixed text up to some character
bash: change "title" of postscript file
is this a valid shell sed command and what does it do?
regex to catch commented lines of a conf file
perl filter output from system command
shell scripting. command substitution issue in my script
insert linefeed in sed (mac os x)
how to write a script or shell command to use a regex in perl?
conventions naming sed script?
use the contents of a file to replace a string using sed
sed -- matching first occurrence in search
sed help: how to replace a text pattern containing brackets
why is my perl replace not working?
why is my perl replace not working?
why is my perl replace not working?
preserving trailing characters when using sed to replace variable data
find and replace each line - bash script
sed and the odyssey of escaping a bash variable
stripping the first part of piped output
reformat text in in a file linux via a bash script
using sed to with pattern matching to substitute commands
bash sed replace
how to skip lines matching a string
bash script to dump mysql view into csv
how does the terminal know which function it's to apply?
how do you pipe the result of s3cmd get to a var?
how do you pipe the result of s3cmd get to a var?
how do you pipe the result of s3cmd get to a var?
s3cmd count lines with zcat and grep
calling bash command with if/else and awk
how to replace strings containing slashes with sed?
sed expression that converts some matches to uppercase
adding newlines in the middle of a sed substitute in a python script
how do i call archive.tar in salt?
send string to python script through server
finding multiple strings on multiple lines in file and manipulating output with bash/perl
bash script rewrite in powershell
using awk and printf in for loop bash
using awk and printf in for loop bash
how to write "command -i interval | tail" output to file
stopping sass watch from a script
how to convert directory sass/scss to css via ?
sass --watch process is locking up my terminal window
sass watching multiple directories
how to convert directory sass/scss to css via ?
mac's "say" command to mp3
pass in variable from shell script to applescript
how do i get ruby to make a noise (make my computer beep or play a sound/track) when my script breaks?
how can i use 'say' with perl 5.8.8?
how to use quicklisp when cl program is invoked as a shell script?
how to pass sbcl a string as a single argument
bash escaping issue with $@
bash escaping issue with $@
bash escaping issue with $@
bash escaping issue with $@
how to get all windows service names starting with a common word?
how to set windows service username and password through commandline
how to change user credentials of windows service from ?
how can scala see classes from files  mode?
get variables from run?
how can i assign the output of a function to a variable using bash?
recursive follow files 
why can't i escape quote in gawk?
how to start an application at a given time in dos ?
pipe ls ouput to scp command
shell variables are empty when called in a file name but not when echo'd or called elsewhere
how to transfer files of different extensions from one server to another on linux?
"escaping" nightmare
gerrit scp on windows 8.1 : permission denied (but ssh test seems to be good)
scp with port number specified
how to transfer a file in an "indirect" ssh connection?
send password when using scp to copy files from one server to another
passing a filename with an apostrophe into scp using python
how can i convince z/os scp to transfer binary files?
using scp to copy a file to amazon ec2 instance?
scp (secure copy) to ec2 instance without password
scp documents from server from inside bash script
why wont bash script run by maven scp my file?
touch -r with reference to another server
how to exit out of the shell script if the files are missng in both the machines?
exclude certain directories from ls and copy the remaining over to a shared path
how to scp first 100 folders (alphabetically)
using variables as function arguments 
linux scp command not working with a specified port
how to copy a directory from local machine to remote machine
scp permission denied (publickey). on ec2 only when using -r flag on directories
parameter not being passed to shell script copyfile.sh: 1: copyfile.sh:  leftsquarebrc d: not found
how to get files list downloaded with scp -r
exclude certain directories from ls and copy the remaining over to a shared path
bash command to copy file from one computer to another
sending files and directories using scp
how to upload multiple files and directories using  ftp?
how can i get a folder from remote machine to local machine?
copying entire contents of a server
how to scp first 100 folders (alphabetically)
how to copy entire folder from amazon ec2 linux instance to local linux machine? 
how to scp a folder from remote to local?
moving a folder from desktop to the server?
how can i get a folder from remote machine to local machine?
how can i use `scp` to deploy a website's `.htaccess` file?
ssh versus ftp: push local files to a server via terminal
moving a folder from desktop to the server?
scp output as logfile
scp output as logfile
scp all files starting with 'file' from a server
how can i scp a file with a colon in the file name?
scp folder that does not exist in remote
"escaping" nightmare
ssh to run shell script on remote machine and then copy the output to local machine
equivalent of ftp put and append in scp
using a filename with spaces with scp and chmod 
using a filename with spaces with scp and chmod 
newbie: linux command
getting files using expect command in a shell script
scp the three newest files using bash
scp files from batch account user's folder to local machine
sftp put command fails when 
scp a bunch of files via bash script: there must be a better way
how to best capture and log scp output?
copy multiple sql files to desktop at terminal linux
bash command to copy file from one computer to another
how to write to a file over the network
unix shell file transfer
how to download a file through file uri scheme ?
scp with a vertical line in directory
how to transfer file using winscp console from remote windows 8 server to linux server
ssh scp local file to remote in terminal mac os x
ssh scp local file to remote in terminal mac os x
how to best capture and log scp output?
unix shell file transfer
download non web accessible file with wget
bash: check if remote file exists using scp
how do i use scp to copy a file from the server to the client side ?
how can i upload file by  via sftp?
how to use cygwin with sshd to scp a file from the program files (x86) directory on another machine?
using vim to remotely edit a file on serverb only accessible from servera
sftp to send file with bash script
how to run multiple commands in one bash file?
scp a range of files
scp a range of files
bash command to copy file from one computer to another
shell script - send a message to a remote machine and wait the answer
shell script - send a message to a remote machine and wait the answer
sftp files from remote server to local server
how can i succesfully copy a file from server to local hard disk?
is that possible to get backup from vps by shell access?
cron job doesn't output to nohup.out
bash : how to use screen to have a term session used at home after work?
how to remotely run a program with ssh independent of my current computer
how do run commands in background one by one?
programmatically loading a new process in a new gnu screen window
how to send values to zenity progress bar
how to get a list of programs running with nohup
passing variables from a shell script to a gnu screen
how do you connect the keyboard and a named pipe to stdin ?
how do you connect the keyboard and a named pipe to stdin ?
how do you connect the keyboard and a named pipe to stdin ?
bash echoing in a screen
bash echoing in a screen
send commands to a gnu screen
set screen names with gnu screen
using environment variables in commands passed to screen
problems in sending input to detached 'screen' via readreg and paste
python run shell script that spawns detached child processes
killing ssh session kills running process
how to launch a job in a shell which will persist even if the shell which launches it terminates
send ctrl-a and ctrl-d from shellscript to a gnu screen
exit a screen after a script is finished
shell script: excecute a command in "screen"
gnu screen: how can i create a screen in the background if it doesn't exist?
on-the-fly output redirection, seeing the file redirection output while the program is still running
hudson-ci launched screen session terminates when task ends
python run shell script that spawns detached child processes
bash: screen parameters being interpreted incorrectly
bash compound commands with pipes
run inotifywait on background
starting up a screen (unix command) + running a command in 1 command?
how to resume screen (gnu screen)
running bash script without ending it on exit
how to list running screen sessions?
how do you connect the keyboard and a named pipe to stdin ?
killing ssh session kills running process
bash: killing all screens with a specified name
shell script to start game servers in screen
bash : how to use screen to have a term session used at home after work?
how to remotely run a program with ssh independent of my current computer
how do run commands in background one by one?
move process to other tty
killing ssh session kills running process
how to launch a job in a shell which will persist even if the shell which launches it terminates
how do you start unix screen command with a command?
shell gnu-screen -x stuff problems
how to resume screen (gnu screen)
send ctrl-a and ctrl-d from shellscript to a gnu screen
move process to other tty
why does the included code not work ?
taking screen shot of current os x or iterm terminal window
take a full page screenshot with firefox
take a full page screenshot with firefox
how to suppress terminated message after killing ?
strange steam updater behaivour with pipes
how to use the output of the 'script' command in a pipe with sed
outputting text that auto updates to screen and file
script and scriptreplay give me some problems
how to make this "action-packed, random data" being echoed in a terminal?
pass  arguments to another command 
forward bash colors
output arguments in sorted order
send output of last command to a file automatically ?
linux (bash): redirect all output to file
forward bash colors
how to repeatedly run bash script every n seconds?
about stdout/stderr redirections
about stdout/stderr redirections
key logging 
shell script that writes a shell script
how can i run a curl command for each line of output from my perl script?
how to perform a series of string replacements and be able to easily undo them?
how to perform a series of string replacements and be able to easily undo them?
python: handle globbing within a script
python: handle globbing within a script
linux terminal output redirection
linux terminal output redirection
spellcheck each line
what is the use of running shell script like "$ ls -la | script.sh"?
shell script : is mixing getopts with positional parameters possible?
passing args leftsquarebrc  rightsquarebrc  to java app with spaces
case statement not working in my shell script
ruby on rails: how can i specify runner script environment
running rails runner with some parameters
openssl pass first few lines from script then read from stdin
a good way to capture standard error and standard output
how to rollover the standard output from bash?
with bash scripting, how can i suppress all output from a command?
with bash scripting, how can i suppress all output from a command?
with bash scripting, how can i suppress all output from a command?
parameters or arguments 
how do insert lines of text into file after a particular line 
divide a pdf into some pdf of n pages everyone
script and scriptreplay give me some problems
how to make this "action-packed, random data" being echoed in a terminal?
conditional statement using rexep with bash
how to properly escaping qsub command with long input args within ssh command?
obtain the name of a recently added drive  by using diff awk grep and regular expressions
shell script if else loop not working
shell script if else loop not working
bash script - find file by user input
awk code to calculate throughput for some nodes
can awk patterns match multiple lines?
passing positional arguments (specifying columns) to awk interpreter
keychain security  tool works with find-internet-passwords but not find-generic-passwords
what actually the meaning of "-n" in sed?
how expensive is a bash function call really?
how expensive is a bash function call really?
why my sed command doesn't work sometimes with the r flag
understanding sed
how to remove line matching specific pattern from a file
problems with sed r command for replacing content in file
sed -i + what the same option in solaris
search and replace all but the last line in sed?
use sed to replace the regex match & the line before the match with a "-=+ removed +=-"
how to delete a particular line and also the line immediately above it
i want to replace multy line string with sed or perl
i want to replace multy line string with sed or perl
bash to merge 2 consecutive lines in a file
how to replace text using perl/shell script?
sed: joining lines depending on the second one
append to the previous line for a match
replace text in the line before pattern
how to move column/(conky command) up 1 line - preferably with sed
how to search a phrase in every two lines with sed
using sed for subtitution in next line
command substitution , when the command itself has a quote
delete line if same line in another file matches a pattern
how to remove lines form an array in a most efficient way?
renaming names in a file using another file without using loops
using sed to insert some text in a file
bash script: using sed to stream a environment variable to a file
print variable to end of the file using sed
getting head to display all but the last line of a file: command substitution and standard i/o redirection
how do you skip the last line w/ awk?
unix sed command help
delete first and last line or record from file using sed
in a sed transformation, how to apply a slightly different pattern just for the last line?
in a sed transformation, how to apply a slightly different pattern just for the last line?
how to append to an existing line using sed
bash: add string to the end of the file without line break
replace ';' with ';\n'
sed using a variable for line number restriction
sed using a variable for line number restriction
delete line from file at specified line number in bourne shell
bash: append text to last line of file
tricky multiline erase in sed
how to set matches in a list, set them to a variable, reformat output and pass it to another script?
using sed to extract an email address
find and replace surounding of a string in file
using sed to remove line from textfile
trailing whitespace elimination script for multiple files
replace a line with multiple lines in a file
how to change only specific letters within a word us bash scripting
how to change only specific letters within a word us bash scripting
sed delete option change of delimiter
regex to extract everything in the quotes ?
multiple replacements on first line of a very large file
find replace using regex in sed
sed and regex to replace ',' except inside a string
sed and regex to replace ',' except inside a string
sed and regex to replace ',' except inside a string
unspecified string replacement issue
how to remove 0 from a string using sed
move all files from subdirectory into a new directory without overwriting
remove sensitive values in a source file and comment the respective fields - using sed / awk
can sed do this?
deleting multiple words from a file using terminal
remove date from log files
replacing word after multiple spaces
extract text between two strings repeatedly? (awk? sed?)
editing few lines of a file 
understanding a sed example
how do extract a substring using sed on os x?
sed regex not matching 'either or' inner group
bash to find lines with exact one word?
regex and sed command to match relative path filename
how to delete any string beginning with a backslash?
sed regular expression pattern to replace in css - adding or check within
contents of ouput file of "script" command is cryptic
remove white space from the end of line 
script for extracting the first member of each tuple in a line of tuples
how to replace regex pattern with a new term in sed?
find and replace using regex in sed
find and replace strings using sed
sed with regular expression
sed regex with replace
replace perticular ip (match exact ip) address with new ip 
extract text between two strings repeatedly? (awk? sed?)
extract text between two strings repeatedly? (awk? sed?)
use sed with regular expression for space
renaming a file using a regular expression and x=${...} ?
regex with sed to parse archive name
get a number from a string using sed and regular expression
need to parse between second underscore and first hyphen of the text using sed
regex and sed command to match relative path filename
how do extract a substring using sed on os x?
extracting domain from host name variable without prefix or suffix with sed
regex and sed command to match relative path filename
using sed in osx to rename files
replace particular string at fixed position using sed
using sed to remove all console.log from javascript file
why doesn't this simple regex work with sed?
how to replace value of xml attributes matching a regex ?
remove numbers within brackets only
bash script parse files for multiple occurrence of string between pattern
modify config file using bash script
sed line range, all but the last line
grepping out a block of text, regex
sed error "unterminated 's' command" troubleshooting
search and replace all but the last line in sed?
use sed to append text at the end of some specific lines
linux sed  script
sed: insert line above pattern and append the pattern space to it
seeking a regexp to replace every seventh comma by \n
bash script - mass modify files sed regular expression
find "string1" and delete between that and "string2"
sed replacing with 'possible' newline
sed replacing with 'possible' newline
sed replacing with 'possible' newline
sed - how to print regex groups in multi-line?
use sed to replace text in a xml with the contents of another file
how to use sed regular expression to replace a line
how to go from a multiple line sed command  to single line in script
how can i use sed to delete blank, unquoted lines?
how can i use sed to delete blank, unquoted lines?
using sed to dynamically generate a file name
what is the equivalent of the instruction sed -i in solaris?
need to pass the search pattern dynamically to sed
adding line with text between pattern and next occurence of the same pattern 
adding line with text between pattern and next occurence of the same pattern 
shell - sed regexp capture from a word till an eventual comma and the end of line
interweave two files bash script
sed -e to display only a block of text - can you explain the command?
want to delete ith matching pattern from file
sed -e to display only a block of text - can you explain the command?
excluding first and last lines from sed /start/,/end/
parse contents of .txt file to html file using bash
parse contents of .txt file to html file using bash
substitution depending on the value of other column
sed - commenting a line matching a specific string and that is not already commented out
python sed not working
deleting multiple lines with sed
replace word tag to entire file content
removing rows of a file following 'na's
sed + add remark before string in specific line
merge two text files at a specific location, sed or awk
how to remove the multiple word and corresponding line of file using shell script
remove \n on a few lines with sed
how to get the part of file after the line that matches grep expression ? (first match)
how to insert the content of a file two lines after the line where a pattern is found?
use sed to insert a line after matching a block of text
append line only when 2 search criteria are met
sed regex issues on aix
sed regular expression does not return expected results
sed error: 'unescaped newline inside substitute pattern' and 'bad flag in substitute command'
removing every character in .txt that isn't enclosed by pipes ( | ) or where the line starts with #
automatically inserting text into bash case statement with sed
bash script to replace words
finding users in a xml-file and return in a variable
combine matching lines using sed or awk?
sed/awk : remove lines from pattern to pattern
sed: delete all lines in a file using sentinel values
replace text between two strings in file using linux bash
how to print last non-blank line using sed?
sed command to insert multi line string after multi line search
how to parse rackspace big data api response using shell scripting
regexp (sed) suppress "no match" output
sed/awk: dos to unix path substitution within a file
search and replace patterns on multiple line
string replacement in solaris 11
how to use sed to replace a pattern in a file only in lines that contain another pattern
sed error: 'unescaped newline inside substitute pattern' and 'bad flag in substitute command'
delete multiple lines from files using sed/awk using regex pattern
susbtitution in sed with spaces
is it possible to tell sed to perform a maximum of one substitution per line?
bash edit last character in file at specified line
conditional sed substitution
conditional sed substitution
why is my sed {r file d} function not working?
how to select lines containing several words using sed?
using sed to modify line not containing string
how to display all lines from one that match regex 
bash script to insert code from one file at a specific location in another file?
confining substitution to match space using sed?
bash script to insert code from one file at a specific location in another file?
bash edit last character in file at specified line
sed pattern to remove following line
sed - comment a matching line and x lines after it
sed + match line and add word on the first string in line
using sed to change /etc/fstab, part ii
specify multiple possible patterns for a single command
sed: delete n lines following a pattern
using sed to delete a case insensitive matched line
inserting multiline text from file to another file after pattern
sed: delete n lines following a pattern
how to insert 4 newlines before pattern match with sed?
using sed to extract an email address
sed - how do i make this a "one liner"?
sed word ending with a letter and deleting that letter
appending to line with sed, adding separator if necessary
appending to line with sed, adding separator if necessary
insert newline before first line
how to remove the very first matching line with sed
sed match on first instance not working
grepping out a block of text, regex
how to get the part of file after the line that matches grep expression ? (first match)
sed or awk to print lines between words
how to parse rackspace big data api response using shell scripting
splitting non-equally file 
how can use sed/awk or other tool to assist in search and replace of 12gb subversion dump file
how do i mark only one selection as true in a dynamic zenity radiolist?
how to result from head command to sed to add to the first line of the file?
replace a string which is present on first line  file
sed 's/this/that/' -- ignoring g but still replace entire file
how to remove first character from first line using sed
arguments inside sed loop
replace a string which is present on first line  file
use sed to extract header and data from "x=a1, y=b1, z=c1" type of files
sed lines in script - exercise
delete specific line up to the last
skipping the first n lines when using regex with sed?
skipping the first n lines when using regex with sed?
bash or python for changing spacing in files
bash or python for changing spacing in files
sed error : sed: -e expression #1, char 12: unknown option to `s'
sed replace only in even numbered lines of a file when replace commands are written in a file
replace values between 2 files
delete specific line number(s) from a text file using sed?
copy a line from text file to shell
insert some text after nth matching pattern using sed
format a file based on the ifs
sed - how to delete everything but the last n lines?
delete lines from a file that are broken over multiple lines with "\"
removing trailing / starting newlines with sed, awk, tr, and friends
replacing backslash followed by newline with space using awk
writing shell script
delete multiline pattern containing another pattern
want to delete ith matching pattern from file
want to delete ith matching pattern from file
join continued lines together
sed for parsing multiline
replacing newline sed
sed command to replace newline character is not working in solaris but working 
using sed, how can i replace all occurences of x with y, but only after seeing z?
how to do sum from the file and move in particular way in another file ?
removing newlines in middle of function call in source code
sed find and replace between two tags with multi line
replacing empty fields in delimited text file with dummy value
using grep, treating two lines as one?
using grep, treating two lines as one?
bash/sed: concat multiple line plus eat up leading spaces for sublines
how to replace all the blanks within square brackets with an underscore using sed?
how to replace all the blanks within square brackets with an underscore using sed?
how to replace all the blanks within square brackets with an underscore using sed?
remove all ocurrences of some characters between patterns in a file
why do alternate delimiters not work with sed -e '/pattern/s/a/b/'?
how can i apply unix's / sed's / perl's transliterate (tr) to only a specific column?
how can i apply unix's / sed's / perl's transliterate (tr) to only a specific column?
sed (posix) coming from linux
sed (posix) coming from linux
intersperse the lines of two different files
clarification of 'sed' usage
bash remove everything directly after html
simple sed command
sed to remove urls from a file
use sed to replace all ' with \' and all " with \"
bash get string after character
linux text file manipulation
changing the contents of a text file
sed command creates a file with 0 bytes
sed inside bash script not working: but it works on 
unpredictable behavior in sed interpreters output from multiple expressions
bash script to convert windows path to linux path
unix: using sed to eliminate and replace things in a string?
how to replace .. from string  script?
multiple line tag content replacement if content matches
get text inside xml tag using grep
calling search and replace functions for vim from within a bash script
getting "ksh: no space"-error when running a unix command
x lion, how does one replace multiple spaces with a single space using sed?
replace two or more spaces within a text file with a ;
sed - how to remove a-z from second column
is there a way to run a tr command (or something like it) in windows perl?
finding the right regex with sed
how to replace space with comma using sed?
awk script adjusting format
remove first three occurrences of space
a simple but logical issue with file formatting using awk
separating every line in a file at specific points
convert line endings to other line endings using basic unix tools on mac os x (sed, tr, etc.)
have sed make substitute on string but skip first occurrence
passing sed replace arguments within a bash variable
sed remove tags from html file
removing xml tags from unix 
sed remove all html tags except links
using sed to replace  leftanglebrc ? with  leftanglebrc ?php
change encoding of text file (shell archive or script for antique kernel text to ascii text, with crlf, lf line terminators)
replace words using grep and sed 
replacing xml tags 
remove anchor tag but keep anchor text
how to use sed to delete a string with wildcards
how do i use sed to replace  leftanglebrc h1 rightanglebrc ... leftanglebrc /h1 rightanglebrc  with  leftanglebrc h2 rightanglebrc ... leftanglebrc /h2 rightanglebrc 
delete strings from an html file containing a pattern using unix commands
sed on big multiple files fails (37kb each)
escape a string for a sed replace pattern
replace punctuation by one space
how do i use sed to remove decimal numbers from a string?
sed - delete x numbers of characters before a string
convert (integer,precision) pair to a float /bc
bash: split mac address - rightanglebrc  000e0c7f6676 to 00:0e:0c:7f:66:76
remove all words bigger than 6 characters using sed
escape a string for a sed replace pattern
sed to search 2 patterns, if the first pattern not exist, print the second pattern
how can i use perl/awk/sed to search for all occurrences of text wrapped in quotes within a file and then delete them?
surround numbers with double quotes with sed
insert with sed
using sed/awk to limit/parse output of ldap dn's
sed + remove "#" and empty lines with one sed command
regular expression in sed to replace c++ includes
bash how to append word to end of a line?
, how do i add a string after each line in a file?
how to replace a variable  string
how to pass a variable to sed
php sed like functionality
change a string and undo this change make the file empty
sed not working inside bash script
how to replace ${} placeholders in a text file?
sed find replace - escape special characters
how to pass a variable to sed
finding the right regex with sed
sed error "invalid range end"
replacing text 
using sed to replace a string with the contents of a variable, even if it's an escape character
need help on sed and awk command?
need help on sed and awk command?
how to replace null value(field) with word on csv file
sed or awk replace first 14 ocurrences
removing spaces after all commas
use sed to append text at the end of some specific lines
how can i use sed to create this pattern in file
unix command to print the 2nd part of the data after matched pattern
sed misbehaving?
sed misbehaving?
grep or sed for word containing string
differentiate between 2 and 02  script
can't extract pattern from filename
shell script(aix) : finding a string after the matched pattern line by line in a file
extract substring from lines using grep, awk,sed or etc
sed - delete x numbers of characters before a string
ignore non-matching lines
shell scripting, replace the characters using sed
bash printing, how to
convert first letter of given file to lower case
sed - delete x numbers of characters before a string
sed - delete x numbers of characters before a string
how to insert a new line character after a fixed number of characters in a file
regex not working with sed
shell script: send sed output to mysql?
replacing strings in brackets in sql file
how can i parse a yaml file from a linux shell script?
how to write a shell script to read from standard in and print to standard out?
bash shell script extract json object
bash - make the first letter uppercase
sed command to edit stream on given rule
how to use sed to find and surround all words after an equals sign with quotation marks
sed command to take variable
bash to match pattern in filename then add/edit
removing extra space
use sed with regular expression for space
use sed with regular expression for space
how to use sed/grep to extract text between two words?
transform mysql 'insert' statement into a csv line
gnu sed excludes unmatched lines
gnu sed excludes unmatched lines
gnu sed excludes unmatched lines
find and replace html code for multiple files within multiple directories
bash grep finding java declarations
sed command to reverse all two digit numbers in a string of numbers
how to replace paired square brackets with other syntax with sed?
parse file with bash script and copy pattern match to a variable
sed replacing tex short-hand $$ with latex short-hand \( \)
how to get the first numbers with sed linux
apply sed to crontab lines?
remove trailing dot from number and remove round brackets around numbers using sed
sed to insert colon in a mac address
gnu sed format usa address to street, city, state, zip
linux bash, camel case string to separate by dash
search a pattern in each line and append it at the end of that line
sed/regex works on a substring in some cases, but not other cases
add character to particular column using awk
lower case to uppercase conversion
regex to replace last occurrence of a string in each line
regex to replace last occurrence of a string in each line
shell scripting, replace the characters using sed
how to replace a line in sed?
sed: delete characters between two strings
using sed to extract an email address
shorten sed statement?
sed filter to substitute '!' for periods and '!!' for periods at the end of lines
need help  script
remove all backslashes except in the newline
find replace while keeping an argument using sed
understanding sed commands
set of word from the same line to several lines 
removing spaces after all commas
replace first two whitespace occurrences with a comma using sed
replace all whitespace with a line break/paragraph mark to make a word list
use sed to delete all leading/following blank spaces in a text file
removing line numbers with sed
delete numbers from a file
delete flanking uppercase characters in a string
sed + match line and add word on the first string in line
extracting version string 
one-liner command to empty multiple text files in terminal
want to replace a string only at first occurrence using sed
editting a string variable in a bash script
uncoment lines using bash script
uncoment lines using bash script
sed remove lines in a bash script between braces
sed linux command to replace in exactly in a line
how to replace null value(field) with word on csv file
matching text in quotes (newbie)
case insensitive string comparison 
using sed to extract an email address
extract string from rows using awk based on string value
find lines containing "^" and replace entire line with ""
convert first letter of given file to lower case
regular expression to match beginning and end of a line?
optimize shell script for multiple sed replacements
differentiate between 2 and 02  script
how to delete 0 in file?
swap value in column 1
alter multiple lines in sed - bash
sed: find and replace string but not super-string
i am using sed with a regex  but not getting the expected answer
unix cut: print same field twice
sed: how to replace a line with a changeable character?
sed script that will find a match in a line, and the change another part of that line
swapping characters within a text file
print first 80 char in a line  pipe
using sed to swap columns x and x+1 inline in delimited file
how can i remove responses from livehttpheaders output using awk, perl or sed?
quotation mark into .csv (per field) awk/sed
is it possible to tell sed to perform a maximum of one substitution per line?
script awk v. sed for modifying ipsec.conf
how to replace a line 
how to replace a line 
grepping, formatting
remove portion of a column in a .tab 
gnu sed - find or replacing spaces or new lines. why is this not working? v3.02 vs v4.2
gnu sed - find or replacing spaces or new lines. why is this not working? v3.02 vs v4.2
gnu sed - find or replacing spaces or new lines. why is this not working? v3.02 vs v4.2
gnu sed - find or replacing spaces or new lines. why is this not working? v3.02 vs v4.2
find and replace multiple pairs of chars
how the unix sed sort combine use with ruby format looks like?
boolean or in sed regex
uppercasing first letter of words using sed
sed: mix explicit and regex phrases
using find and if exist to delete a specific phrase from a text file
how to replace two things at once with sed?
replace something with a string and sed -e
using sed on a shell scripts on multiple files
adding scan lines with sed file
replace text  sed
removing one number from line while keeping everything else same
sed: file or directory not found
replace windows newlines in a lot of files using sed - but it doesn't
using sed to extract an email address
unformat disk size strings
how to "flip-replace" strings in a file using shell scripting
using find and if exist to delete a specific phrase from a text file
use sed replace ""sting"\1\"787" to "sting"\1\"787" in cygwin
mongoimport strict json {$date:xxx} as isodate
simplify text processing pipeline with awk
sed usage to eliminate characters around certain patterns but not others
evaluate variable  at runtime
sed replace versus python replace
sed printing first 255 characters followed by entire line
sed printing first 255 characters followed by entire line
sed printing first 255 characters followed by entire line
sed only substitutes first occurrence of string
how do i replace a letter and a digit inside a square bracket with just the same digit and the letter outside the bracket in sed?
using sed to pull out datetime
split the line by fixed width in awk
bash file mass replacement
how do i fix sed group capturing for unnesting a latex code section?
delete words between specified characters with sed
sed filter to substitute '!' for periods and '!!' for periods at the end of lines
how the unix sed sort combine use with ruby format looks like?
how the unix sed sort combine use with ruby format looks like?
sed-replacing a pattern
calculation with 
bash - change image urls to base64 in html
strip double dots from path 
extract key/value from file to another file 
extract key/value from file to another file 
variables that work everywhere
pcre regex to sed regex
sed: search and replace varying column
sed: search and replace varying column
how to remove lines form an array in a most efficient way?
replacing strings in one file with strings from second file
i want to use variable in sed -f command 
paste a line from file1 after a specific line in file2 in a shell script
sed(1): add a line at the end of a php array
sed in vista - how to delete all symbols between?
how to ignore line break in text search?
sed: no previous regular expression
sed won't pipe to a file
sed script to remove whitespace from a region
line breaking  script
sed - insert a line before a pattern
need to match a unique string from a file, then remove the entire encapsulated text
transforming text with 'sed' or 'awk'
how to change text in ror config file?
sed search replace pattern (bash)
sed with both " and ' in insert string
how to substitute a paragraph in file?
how to insert a line using sed before a pattern and after a line number?
sed: hold pattern and rearrange line
regex to repeat indentation in sed
how to determine which '\' is causing error?
inserting text before a character or on a new line using sed?
inserting text before a character or on a new line using sed?
inserting text before a character or on a new line using sed?
regular expression replace with sed
how can i replace this line ?
more than one '-e' in sed on osx
sed - is this replacement with a dot is right or should i escape it?
sed - is this replacement with a dot is right or should i escape it?
sed replacing numbers in string
sed without backup file
replacing a *specific* term in an xml file
sed throws 'bad flag in substitute command'
use sed to replace first line of text file on mac os x lion
sed gives "sed: 1: "tsunit.js": undefined label 'sunit.js'"
sudo doesn't work when redirecting the output of sed to a file
sed throws 'bad flag in substitute command'
remove duplicates per line
why does sed add a new line in osx?
just got bashed by my sed script- why?
how to use sed to change lines in place on a mac (darwin)
macos editing xml files with sed
specifiying a file in a specific directory in sed
sed command failing on mac, but works on linux
using sed in terminal to replace text in file
bash - replacing string with sed
bash script to insert ip address into property file
replace a string upto and including the first instance of another string in os x
replace text using sed
getting sed error
bash - remove the last line from a file
sed + remove string only in the last line of the file
delete line if same line in another file matches a pattern
problem with quoting and sed
replace last line of xml file
writing to a file linux terminal
replace last line of xml file
how to add json object to json file using shell script
bash - delete lines and replace them by blank lines
sed insert line with spaces to a specific line
delete line from file at specified line number in bourne shell
using variable inside of sed -i (regex?) bash
how to use sed to replace the first column (unknown floating point) of a given row, then pad with spaces to nth character
how to pass variables in sed commands
hold buffer to rearrange texts
escape unix character
sed not working properly with multiple input files
how to add new line to existing txt file
how to use bash (sed or any other) command to insert at eof-nth line
sed, how to replace one line with 2 line?
concatenating a column to a file
removing carriage return on mac using sed
insert space after period using sed
shell: open a file, add a line in a particular position, and replace a particular line. is it possible?
finding a pattern and extracting it into another file using sed 
how to remove the header from a file only if exist ?
shell script to add header to a file
delete specific line number(s) from a text file using sed?
linux command to replace string in large file with another string
shell script/linux command for altering text files
fix kate text editor line limit via bash script
find and replace text within a file on osx/bash
unix find and replace characters with strings for multiple characters
how to replace single line in the text file with bash?
redirecting and writing in the same file
sed in vista - how to delete all symbols between?
replace newline with string in sed on mac
deleting lines with sed where the variable value is empty
deleting lines with sed where the variable value is empty
insert space in a specific column without a patern matching (sed or awk) in all lines?
how to replace values which are in single quotes using a bash script?
how to replace a word through a variable after searching?
how to replace a word through a variable after searching?
shell: subsitute a string between 2 known strings
sed or awk filtering on floating point numbers
bash script to convert date format
sed equivalent to pcre's `.?`
sed: how do i get a phone number in the form (ddd)-ddd-dddd?
shell script to replace all function calls with another call
trying to remove *.php from anchor href's with sed
sed + replace string/word and ignore space after string
regex - find and replace string
using sed to replace one line (that might change) with another
remove a line from a .txt line on grep match 
how to remove commas in the middle of a specific line in a file /unix
bash command to remove contents b/w two blocks from file
how to replace line bash script
how do you find and replace a line in a text document through terminal
prepend certain lines of file
sed to replace specific string, in multiple lines which are between some pattern
prepend certain lines of file
sed replace a string with quotes and an ip address
modifying ini files using shell script
how can i edit font-size and font-family option in css file using sed?
delete lines awk
how to remove a malicious javascript code from multiple files
multi-line sed expression doesnt work
add a # to every line in a file with certain string with sed
inserting text in multiple files before a certain pattern
remove line of text from multiple files 
bash, if find a matched string in file_a, then copy file_b after the matched string in file_a
applying sed to certains line from file using bash
how to begin at line n in a file with sed?
insert a line in csv file
how to add new line to existing txt file
inserting state at specific line using sed
inserting state at specific line using sed
sed command not working as expected for delete particular line from file
insert a line to a specific position in multiple files
sed command add multiple lines bash
sed replace entire line at line number with a string that contains nested quotes
delete line using sed with dot in string
replace 
remove date from log files
bash: insert text in a specific position
break a subtitle before hyphen
gnuplot datafile multiple separator
remove first part of a line until character @ is found
finding special characters in array of string varialbes bash script
remove perticular keyword from a file 
removing carriage return on mac using sed
add at the end of the line with sed
replace a string in file using shell script
shell script - sed doesn't work
bash script: change all & to &amp; in all files
sed: how do i get a phone number in the form (ddd)-ddd-dddd?
replace string for sed \n
replace string for sed \n
command-line recursive code cleanup, '){' to ') {', using grep/sed
how to remove first comma on each line in a file
how to cut and overwrite a certain section from a file bash
how to cut and overwrite a certain section from a file bash
awk - stripping out lines of ddl
sed command find and replace in file and overwrite file doesnt work, it empties the file
how to replace the words with certain pattern in a file with sed?
linux sed search replace multiple per line
sed equivalent to pcre's `.?`
modify string to get variable working
transforming an n-column file to a single-column file
change line  using regular expression
remove leading spaces with sed
remove date from log files
remove date from log files
search for specific line of text file, replace up to a certain character
replace end of varying string
shell command to strip out ^m characters from text file
replace end of varying string
how to use sed to replace a config file's variable?
replace a statement with another one with shell script
sed not replacing lines
how to cut and overwrite a certain section from a file bash
how to use sed command to search and replace recursively in subdirectories?
replace a string in file using shell script
replace a text with sed which has variabables
sed insert right after  leftanglebrc body... rightanglebrc 
using sed to append string with value within string
sed unix command, need help to change .less files into style.css
sed search replace pattern
adding text at the beginning of each line
writing a bash script that writes a variable to the end of a line in another file
bash: add string to the end of the file without line break
sed change line error message
how can i sort out this data?
replace text in file with user input containing space, using sed
using sed or awk how do you remove a pattern around a certian line
in-place edits with sed on os x
removing unicode line separator 
delete lines with sed match a special regex
delete lines with sed match a special regex
delete lines with sed match a special regex
regexp of "it does not start with keyword1"
unix command to prepend text to a file
how to copy text from a given line and column number and paste it in another file at a given line and column number
bashscript remove strings in file
replace string in files using sed
replacing "#", "$", "%", "&", and "_" with "\#", "\$", "\%", "\&", and "\_"
is there any way to remove the first occurence of pattern by sed?
add a new line at the end of file
use sed to replace a line
deleting last line of a file
merge two text files at a specific location, sed or awk
unable to use sed to edit files fast
shell: open a file, add a line in a particular position, and replace a particular line. is it possible?
replace xml value with sed
how to remove a rule between tags from all .htaccess
using sed in a makefile
script to edit many text files
want to delete ith matching pattern from file
using ansi-c quoting in sed
delete line ending with a newline character in text file
shell scripting - write contents of variable to specific place in file?
shell scripting - write contents of variable to specific place in file?
find a string and add multiple lined string saved in variable before
how to remove a given line from a file
remove lines in multiple text files that begin with a certain word
bash: update a variable within a file
basic regexp question: how to modify only the lines starting with a string with sed
delete line ending with a newline character in text file
using linux script, how to add or replace package statement in java source files
how to remove specific lines from all files?
move lines matching a pattern from one file to another
use the contents of a file to replace a string using sed
writing to /etc/networking/interfaces at boot using sed/awk?
bash strip line matching wildcard
sed, replace only if string exists in current line
sed, replace only if string exists in current line
multiple substitution and simultaneous deletion of lines from files
replace/substitute pattern with file content
replace/substitute pattern with file content
how can i add stdout to a top of a file (not the bottom)?
how can i make changes to only the first line of a file?
unix: how can i prepend output to a file?
using bash , how to add "import package.name.*;" to many java files?
sed  script to copy the content of variable in a file
insert a variable at line #1 of txt file using sed
sed: replace a block of text
how to remove first character from first line using sed
 how to replace string variable, and set it into sed command
insert word between lines
how do i insert a line at a specific row in multiple files on unix?
writing to /etc/networking/interfaces at boot using sed/awk?
want to delete ith matching pattern from file
replace part of a line containing tabs
sed: -i may not be used with stdin on mac os x
separating every line in a file at specific points
replacing xml tags 
using sed to replace the contents of a file is not working  script
removing numeric value from a string
how to find replace value with whitespace using sed in a bash script
is there a better way to double escape (or escape twice) user input  than calling printf twice?
change a string and undo this change make the file empty
replacing html tag content using sed
how to replace the second string by using the first string
sed returning empty line on second pass
sed returning empty line on second pass
is there a shell command to insert a string of characters in every line of a file
match a line in multiple files and modify
how to use regex expression (using sed) in windows using cygwin without removing carriage return?
find a string and add multiple lined string saved in variable before
find a string and add multiple lined string saved in variable before
find and replace using sed?
correct way to use bash to replace text in files
remove occurances of string in text file
how to delete a string from the string in a file using sed
delete matching line with sed
find replace while keeping an argument using sed
use sed to delete all leading/following blank spaces in a text file
how to write to line 10?
how to remove ctrl-a characters from file using sed?
how to replace new line and ^m chars with ~~ 
appending text to the existing first line with sed
using sed to replace whole word containing '='?
how to use variable in sed command to replace a property value in a property file
remove words starting with "_" in file using sed 
search and replace string using sed
sed output blank  script
sed returning empty line on second pass
sed returning empty line on second pass
sed returning empty line on second pass
sed trying to replace string with another string
shell script/command for replacing a (single) string in multiple files?
remove occurances of string in text file
adding scan lines with sed file
use sed to replace one namespace with two
sed find replace string with special characters
sed or operator in set of regex
sed find and replace a string with spaces
how to use sed to replace a string in a file with a shell variable
sed not working as intended  script
sed and replace string by a $variable
remove/replace html tags 
why is my bash script breaking on an empty space?
use sed (or awk) to replace first two slashes on every line
bash, sed and nested variables
match string plus any non-whitespace character and insert whitespace
formatting show engine innodb status outputs when “\n” are embedded as text
bash: update a variable within a file
convert urls into html links using sed?
convert urls into html links using sed?
sed replace (single-line) c comments with c++ comments
sed: no previous regular expression
replace matches of one regex expression with matches from another, across two files
replace delimited block of text in file with the contents of another file
in place replace with sed but only to keep a subset of the lines
linux truncate first line - is there a better method
transform using a shell script a formated xml file into a one-line file containing all the tags
substitute string in php from another file
how to use sed to replace the first column (unknown floating point) of a given row, then pad with spaces to nth character
ubuntu sed: replacing with regular expressions
`sed` works, but `sed -i` returns an error
using sed to get all characters between opening and closing characters
bash: update a variable within a file
how to delete all lines between the pattern lines
sed command matches regex but does not substitute
removing cruft lines with sed
trying to delete certain lines in a range using sed
writing bash script to change text and write to a log
how to insert a new line of code in only perl scripts with bash script
modify csv header using bash script
sed invalid preceding regular expression when trying to use capturing group on a search and replace
ssh sed not changing variables correctly
regex expression that matches phrase, unless its already prefixed
changing mysql dump to not include the auto-inc column
how can i insert a newline after a certain amount of characters
kshell read a file and define record length then strip ascii 20 characters from the end of each record
delete a column with awk or sed
how to move a character (in sed?)
using regex and sed command to substitute ' *' pointers in c++ code is not working
insert text to file - bash
in a bash script, loop through lines in a file and modify them?
delete a column with awk or sed
cleaner way to write multiple sed commands?
sed - modify single character in first column without touching others
sed . lots of parantheses and slashes
single quoted string for sed in makefile
search replace regular expression variable using sed
edit tomcat server.xml using shell
how to append string to start and end at given line
change subnet with bash script
replace using sed
replace using sed
regex not tolerant to spaces in minified files
adding line with text between pattern and next occurence of the same pattern 
how to replace the last occurrence of a comma
add address at end of line in hosts file using sed
bash - find a keyword in a file and delete its line
sed gives "sed: 1: "tsunit.js": undefined label 'sunit.js'"
add address at end of line in hosts file using sed
use of sed (linux)?
how to delete first column from the file 
sed command failing on mac, but works on linux
sed/tr etc.. : how to comment out a line that contains "string" in a file?
replace a line in a file with a string
sed error "sed: unmatched '/'"
sed error "sed: unmatched '/'"
how to change specific value of xml attribute using scripting on mac
bash remove everything after  leftanglebrc /html rightanglebrc 
add/remove xml tags using a bash script
how can i remove junk from outside valid xml tags?
writing bash script to change text and write to a log
how do i insert a line above specific lines in a file using vim or perl?
problem formatting a find with sed output
sed: can't find label for jump to `omcat-users rightanglebrc /d'
substitue backslash to forward slash in #include statement
1 liner script to get ip address of server (ifconfig) and append to hostname to /etc/hosts for matching ipaddress
removing of specific line in text file
bash delete a line from a file, permanently
remove a hyphen from a specific line in a file
writing to csv using bash sed not working as expected
sed match dates in wordpress url
sed match dates in wordpress url
writing to csv using bash sed not working as expected
bash delete line condition
remove line feed(s) from start of specific files
removing a line from a file using sed  script
using variables in a sed command
insert line after first match using sed
delete lines based on keywords within tags
using sed command,replace line ,but not the matching pattern
sed/awk edit one line
replacement in a file only in a fixed line
replacing "localhost" in text file using sed
sed not obeying \t or actual tab
replace whole line containing a string using sed
insert text into file after a specific text
linux bash scripting to remove certain text
how to delete a line that contains a word in all text files of a folder?
why sed not accepting shell variables?
how would i use sed command to delete text within a document?
, delete everything between two sets of characters
sed regexp not working, what's my error
i have to delete a line: "\n run 120" from all files within a dir. how?
how to remove a line with space using sed?
sed + delete line that begin with ### include space between line beginning and ###
how to remove blank lines from a unix file
how to remove blank lines from a unix file
how to use linux command(sed?) to delete specific lines in a file?
how to replace a word starting with certain characters on certain lines?
how to globally replace strings in lines not starting with a certain pattern
sed : how to uncomment a line that contains a specific string ? ( inline editing )
delete empty lines in csv file
how to remove blank lines from a unix file
delete empty lines in csv file
delete specific line with sed without deleting other lines with same prefix
search in column 1 of the text file shell script
how to delete the string which is present in parameter from file 
replace specific columns in fixed width files using sed
how to use bash to replace a string
prepend number to the beginning of some lines 
perl multiline find and replace
backspace in .bash file
linux sed awk sqlite dump to mysql change string to varchar on lines that start with create table
bash scripting: replace (or delete) string in a file if line starts with (or matches) another string
bash script: appending text at the last character of specific line of a file
shell script find and replace in file
using sed to change heading names of a very large file
sed replace end of specific string in file
sed: delete lines matchin a string and followed by a line with another string
insert with sed n repeated characters
update var in ini file using bash
delete empty lines from a file
add to the end of a line containing a pattern - with sed or awk
replacing a string with sed
how do i delete n many new lines ?
modifying ini files using shell script
check if line exists in a file
find/sed: how can i recursively search/replace a string in files but only for lines that match a particular regexp
trying to comment some lines from dovecot conf file
sed replace a single line
replace substring in lines using sed or grep
delete text in file using bash script in centos
sed: search a file and replace a pattern in line
can a long sed command be broken over several lines?
delete line containing a specific string 
insert multiple lines into a file after specified pattern using shell script
add a # to every line in a file with certain string with sed
inserting text in multiple files before a certain pattern
change a line with awk
removing a line from multiple files using grep & sed
multiline sed option?
how to send variable content to a file
how can i insert a new line with sed that will allow a backslash in the entry
modify line in file matching word1 and not word2 (sed/awk)
appending to the middle of a line in a textfile sed
delete matching line(s) from a list of files
how do i remove all lines matching a pattern from a set of files?
delete a line containing a specific string using sed
how to comment out python code using sed command
shell sed - substitute an unknown string between a known string and a generic delimiter
prefixing matching lines in a file
prefixing matching lines in a file
multiple substitution and simultaneous deletion of lines from files
multiple substitution and simultaneous deletion of lines from files
sed to replace first forward slash in line after match with a string
sed: simultanous in-place replacement, and printout of changed lines?
i want to search a word from a file and replace it with another value in file
how to edit line in file using bash
change value inside qoutes in xml file from bash
sed insert "//"
using sed to delete matching line from multiple text files
cleaning up iframe malware
how to remove all lines in a file containing a variable, only when located on a line somewhere between braces ?
sed - remove spaces between curly brackets
sed insert before first match
replacing first occurance of a match with sed
using sed to replace the first instance of an entire line beginning with string
using sed to replace the first instance of an entire line beginning with string
sed to change string in a file only once
writing bash script to change text and write to a log
only replace a string only once in the entire file
using sed to change heading names of a very large file
add a row with empty columns to a tab delimited file
selecting data from a big file
add a sign (#!) in beginning of line in a file
vim: how to go to exact line on ubuntu
keep the first part and delete the rest on a specified line using sed
sed error: unknown option to 's'
insert a text after text on line number 
optimize bash code to delete first and last line of xml files
adding header to tsv file through terminal
insert a line in csv file
replace first line of files by another made by changing path from unix to windows
change first line recursively in all php files using bash
how to insert a text at the beginning of a file?
split a csv file into parts, copy header
change first line recursively in all php files using bash
using sed to insert line of text with tab delimiter
make: snippet not working as expected
combine 2 lines in large text file using sed
change a target line of a file
sed inside shell script not working
using sed to delete multiple lines
unable to insert text at a particular line of a file using linux sed
sed/awk to search and replace/insert text in files
sed command: won't insert the string i want
removing multiple block of lines of a text file 
remove specific line by line number from several files
how to modify part of a single line in sed
how to modify part of a single line in sed
vim: how to go to exact line on ubuntu
delete line from file at specified line number in bourne shell
using sed and delete last line
remove specific lines inside a range with sed
how to replace new line and ^m chars with ~~ 
bash: how to check and insert a string within a block in a file
how do i replace the second occurrence of string 'allowoverride none' with 'allowoverride all' using sed
grep sed how can i search for a pattern span into two lines?
bash: replace in a string './' for newline
sed replace (single-line) c comments with c++ comments
double spacing file using sed 
bash: replace an entire line in a text file
auto-delete menu entries as part of a bash script
replacing a *specific* term in an xml file
using sed to insert tabs
sed replace line start with space & # character beside varriable substituation
double quotes and variables in sed - unknown expression?
shell script for adding base_url to the php files
bash scripting: find and replace multiword string
sed error : sed: -e expression #1, char 25: unknown option to `s'
sed code to match http://www.domain.com/ and replace with just a / in all files in a directory
script bash or java code to delete in every file html of my folder a tag
update xml attribute using sed (windows + cygwin and linux)?
global substitution shell script not working
what can i use sed to search for a string and append /sub1 and some file ../ before search string
sed not working with variables
how to use sed command  to replace this string?
how do i use sed to change my configuration files, with flexible keys and values?
sed delimiter options
how to replace a sentence with special chars?
sed replace with shell variables
sed replace with shell variables
ignoring slashes in sed find and replace command
sed error with directory
sed find and replace with curly braces
sed to replace random site urls in ifrrame
replace special charaters in a string with escape sequence  programing
put variable into sed with bash
replace the string "//" with "/// " using the shell
using bash sed to replace file name variables in file
sed replacing without untouching a string
how to change a line with sed using variables in a bash script
how to change a line with sed using variables in a bash script
how to change a line with sed using variables in a bash script
replace double quoted hash with sed
bash - search and append strings
sed replacing without untouching a string
extracting text from line
remove white space from the end of line 
batch - combining 3 columns of x, y, z values into 1 column without using matlab
bulk insert code before  leftanglebrc /body rightanglebrc  tag in 100 files
bash, cat buffer
how can i remove junk from outside valid xml tags?
how to pass an argument with spaces to sed command?
substitution on range of lines
remove string/script from all files (recursive)
remove string/script from all files (recursive)
remove colon and - between numbers
removing everything except the numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 from a file
sed replace text in a xml file
escape  leftanglebrc  and  rightanglebrc  in sed/shell
what's wrong with this shell/sed script?
what's wrong with this shell/sed script?
unix, change the interpreter line in all shell scripts
sed: toggle comments in crontab
linux sed replace a string witch content symbol.
how to use xargs with sed in search pattern
how to add a character to the end of each line in a file 
unix commandline for inline replacement of all newlines in file with  leftanglebrc br rightanglebrc \n
replace current string from textfile database
howto use a blank space as a variable with sed
shell: replacing string in a file using sed
problem with quoting and sed
bash sed implementation replace with semi-colon
sed single quotes
placing letters next to a bash variable
bash array + sed + html
find and replace variables containing non-escaped characters with sed
sed with doublequotes and $
sed : add a string in specific line
sed -i assistance (bash)
using sed to search/replace variable  script
translate & to %20%26%20
sed expansion fails
sed replace single/double quoted text?
howto use a blank space as a variable with sed
find and replace variables containing non-escaped characters with sed
sed replace single/double quoted text?
sed replace single/double quoted text?
how do i replace this text with quotation marks?
edit specific field data in txt file base on other field
sed replace end of specific string in file
replace a unknown string between two known strings with sed
mixing sed backreferences with bash variables
mixing sed backreferences with bash variables
erasing with sed
replace c++ pointer field access symbol to a period, using sed
converting scientific notation to tex math mode format
batch lowercase of text files content
find all files with text "example.html" and replace with "example.php" works only if no spaces are in file name
find all files with text "example.html" and replace with "example.php" works only if no spaces are in file name
sed is printing a substituted line twice
change subnet with bash script
edit tomcats server.xml using ksh?
substitute only the first delimiter and leave the rest untouched
sed replacement error: sed: -e expression #1, char 51: unknown option to `s'
linux bash: how to replace 2 words in a file from bash 
search and replace 
find and replace ing
use $hostname in sed substitution
sed command . how to replace character starting wih xxx and ending with yyy with another string
sed command . how to replace character starting wih xxx and ending with yyy with another string
is it possible to find/replace some characters in a file using some bash commands?
substitution on range of lines
rename data using grep?
how to use sed to replace a string within a larger string
combining 2 sed commands
using sed command,replace line ,but not the matching pattern
replace a line line libc.so
linux append to single line in file
how can i pass  arguments to sed?
how to change a word in a file  shell script
how to modify part of a single line in sed
regarding sed expression evaluation 
how to replace a pattern in one file, with the contents of another file, using sed?
sed command won's save the substitutioned word in the file
how to change the format of substitution variables in a template
how to use jenkins environment variable ?
replace a unknown string between two known strings with sed
find and replace functions without modifying parameters/variables
sed / awk multi-file replacement?
sed / awk multi-file replacement?
sed: use regex to replace ' leftanglebrc ' char with '&lt;' in many xml files
how would i use sed command to delete text within a document?
how can replace this using sed?
replace line in php file with sed from bash
modify last field of complete csv file
combining sed commands
how to replace a word starting with certain characters on certain lines?
sed mass replace css styles via terminal
how can i compact these sed commands into one?
prepend text in file
sed command edit multi files ( insert , replace line)
command to truncate quoted strings in a file?
string replace with sed
sed help: matching and replacing a literal "\n" (not the newline)
how to use sed replace string pattern with backslash
substitute backslash plus pipe in vi/linus
cygwin replace all instances of a character in a text file
how to use sed in order to search ^a and replace it
converting scientific notation to tex math mode format
error while trying to run a script in cygwin
remove newline from shell script command
executing shell script by adding env variables
running script file in ubuntu
unix sed command matching a word
search for multiple conditioned string with awk
is there a way to tell unix expand command not to change line endings?
how to use linux command(sed?) to delete specific lines in a file?
delete chars from a line in a file using bash
cleaner way to write multiple sed commands?
changing css value with shell script - unix
changing css value with shell script - unix
managing a configuration file using sed via shell script
how to edit bash text file using sed
how do i use sed to change my configuration files, with flexible keys and values?
matching strings even if they start with white spaces in sed
strip the last and first character from a string
add prefix to every single hostname 
ubuntu:- append remove keyword to a file
find and replace script (difficult issue...need help!)
bash script: using sed to stream a environment variable to a file
how do i escape backslashes in a sed script embedded in a bash script
unix command to search a line in a file and replace it
how can i get sed to only match to the first occurrence of a character?
how do i use sed to change my configuration files, with flexible keys and values?
sed command adding space at start of line
replace line in files
how to send test to a certain line using bash scripting
sed - stop in first space after variable
how can i change the values of python variables using bash?
how can i change the values of python variables using bash?
howto use a blank space as a variable with sed
linux find and replace
running the same sed transformation on a large number of files
bash script, replace text in file?
using wildcards in sed
output redirection  to a file by a variable
replace double quoted hash with sed
how to replace a sentence with special chars?
same regex evaluated differently with sed than with grep
bash - search and append strings
how can i pass a filename from an environment variable to sed in cygwin?
sed replace urls in file and re-save
how do i do a recursive find & replace within an svn checkout?
running vi within a bash script and executing vi commands to edit another file
replace unknown line in file linux command
linux/ replacing old string with macro
replace a text by shell programming
replace a particular text in all the files using single line shell command
search and replace text in all files of a linux directory
regex to mask special character password in files
regex to remove password from file
cant figure out proper syntax for sed using double quotes
cant figure out proper syntax for sed using double quotes
cant figure out proper syntax for sed using double quotes
using a variable to define a path
modifying text using awk
replace text in file using sed
using sed with wildcard
using sed with wildcard
replace only the first occurence matching a regex with sed
sed text replace
how to write in the middle of a file (bourne shell script)
using grep and sed to replace one string with another
replace a text with a variable (sed)
why sed replace + redirection deletes my file?
how to use date in sed command on mac os?
why is my file filled with extbar after running sed?
why is my file filled with extbar after running sed?
how to substitute }{ with },{ with gsub
how to substitute }{ with },{ with gsub
trying to add a char to the end of each line in a given file, how is it done?
' in sed appearing in the wrong place
sed replace (single-line) c comments with c++ comments
making sane changes in files without opening them ?
getting sed error
sed remove a numbered content from a pattern
sed replacement error: sed: -e expression #1, char 51: unknown option to `s'
sed and whole line
how can i escape forward slashes in a user input variable ?
replace string with variable in sed gives error
sed not working with variables
bash sed substitution in httpd.conf
search and replace substring in string 
getting sed error
edit the current file and read from the edited line
sed pattern find and replace lines
how to insert an arbitrary string after pattern with sed
change csv file delimiter 
change csv file delimiter 
sed replace command inside of a bash script?
find & replace on redhat linux using "sed"
shell script for the changing the element of xml
how to replace value in a file
awk / sed script to remove text
find and replace using sed 
using variable with sed
string not taking with special character
pipes with apt package manager
whats wrong with my shell script
how to remove with awk/sed the characters that show up as sub in notepad++
replace a text string
linux bash sed search and replace with sed characters
sed pattern find and replace lines
replace text in file using sed
how to escape one double quote with sed
replace text in file using sed
howto use a blank space as a variable with sed
substitue backslash to forward slash in #include statement
deleting an exactly matching line from file 
what actually the meaning of "-n" in sed?
linux, big text file, strip out content from line a to line b
modified copies of line sed / awk
unix sed command help
print lines with sed using line number from grep
variable inside awk/sed in alias
how to include variables in the sed command?
bash-script, sed with two variables doesn't work
bash-script, sed with two variables doesn't work
bash get first word last line
using vars as numbers in sed
using sed to get text starting at a line number and ending with a reg expression pattern
how can i echo/print specific lines from a bash variable
how to include variables in the sed command?
moving file pointer after reading a line from a file
reading a particular line from a file  script using variable as line number
how can you have grep start searching from specified line number
unix : display x line in a file (where x is a variable)
need help porting a sed command from debian to osx
need help porting a sed command from debian to osx
bash to find lines with exact one word?
what is wrong here with sed?
sed extract link from html page
extract multiple lines of a file unix
tips with awk with changing parameters
bash expr error
passing input to sed, and sed info to a string
passing input to sed, and sed info to a string
sed one-liner - find delimiter pair surrounding keyword
how do you escape a double quote while using sed?
linux - find a string and get the next section
bash, perl or sed, insert on new line after found phrase
awk or sed to print text between the first occurance of a pattern and the last occurance of a pattern
sed or cut? how do i only get column headers from a file?
sed or cut? how do i only get column headers from a file?
how to extract a specific text of an already extracted xml text  script
how to pass special characters through sed
how to stop this script from moving renamed files out of source folder?
parse a text file for certain string with prefix "product name:"
parse a text file for certain string with prefix "product name:"
print lines with sed using line number from grep
how to get the part of file after the line that matches grep expression ? (first match)
getting aliases from config by regular expression (bad separated)
using sed to print between delimiters
print text between delimiters using sed
how to only print a line if a blank line follows
how do i write a sed script to grep information from a text file
filter a file using shell script tools
get total memory of a host /expect
sed: get lines beginning with "rim-cod-"
how can i print lines between two strings exclusive,using 'sed'  tool?
sed or awk to print lines between words
sed or awk to print lines between words
extract indexes with sed
simplify text processing pipeline with awk
how to extract from a file text between tokens using bash scripts
copy matching lines to a second file
removing lines between two patterns (not inclusive) with sed
how to use command grep with several lines?
delete nodes in xml if they contain certain text using sed
unix shell script get only needed lines from a file content
unix shell script get only needed lines from a file content
unix shell script get only needed lines from a file content
unix shell script get only needed lines from a file content
unix shell script get only needed lines from a file content
unix shell script get only needed lines from a file content
unix shell script get only needed lines from a file content
sed command get text between two string while excluding the two strings using terminal unix
sed command get text between two string while excluding the two strings using terminal unix
sed/awk to search and replace/insert text in files
function to process input from pipe
solaris sed label too long
solaris sed label too long
transform using a shell script a formated xml file into a one-line file containing all the tags
remove newline depending on the format of the next line
using grep, treating two lines as one?
using grep, treating two lines as one?
find text between 2 strings globally in a file unix
how to pass special characters through sed
how to print only matches with sed?
how to print only matches with sed?
sed, awk, perl or lex: find strings by prefix+regex, ignoring rest of input
solaris sed label too long
using sed to get a number within a string with parentheses
extract url part of the line
string returned from sed unusable by curl
new to awk and sed, how could i improve this? multiple sed and awk commands
sed + regular expression: how to get everything before a given character
sed with regexp for different situations
regexp (sed) suppress "no match" output
script to print lines with 4 words
sed + regular expression: how to get everything before a given character
delete n1 previous lines and n2 lines following with respect to a line containing a pattern
add two lines every four lines between patterns - sed
using sed to print between delimiters
script to delete all /n number of lines starting from a word except last line
what is the best way of removing reoccurring lines from a file ?
insert text at the beginning of each line from 2 to end - 5
what is the best way of removing reoccurring lines from a file ?
sed command to reverse print a file skips last line
sed command to reverse print a file skips last line
sed command to get nth tab separated value between lines x and y
script to print lines with 4 words
how to extract some text via bash
using sed to remove lines till the end of the file
awk/sed grep between two patterns and obtain what is between them, is this possible?
searching a two digit number in a line of a file through sed
how to optimize a wordlist for the english language
sed/awk/regex return the lines that ends with three colons
grab nth occurence in between two patterns using awk or sed
sed: displaying the first 10 lines of sophisticated expression
script to output a string that contains a different matching string from a flat file
match inner pattern. multiline
match inner pattern. multiline
get complete json tag content by a matching pattern with regex tools
sed regular expression failure
regex to find number preceded and followed by different strings
how to find/extract a pattern from a file?
bash string manipulation using sed/regex
extract string between single quotes with sed
merge 2 lines into one
getting text from between a specific pair delimiters using sed
bash string manipulation using sed/regex
match domain name from url (www.google.com=google)
match domain name from url (www.google.com=google)
how to delete all the lines which have blank fields with sed or awk?
dropbox uploader modification
best way to parse this particular string using awk / sed?
best way to parse this particular string using awk / sed?
cutting element  based on column value
counting trailing white spaces
sunos - (bash) grep command to get after lines from match that doesn't contain pattern
sed regular expression not matching
how to extract info from xml using bash
search text matching a pattern inside an xml tag
extracting xml that matches starting and ending patterns
deleting multiple html lines in multiple files  commandline
,get content between two strings
sed regex between multiple same characters
awk command to grep data between two multi-line pattern based on condition
extract particular pattern from a file ing
specify a "-" in a sed pattern
extract integer from html according to multiple parameters with sed
how to make this sed 'grab text between 2 keywords' case-insensitive?
extract file content from match pattern to another match pattern
use match and do not match in sed script
print lines between two regex using sed
how to use variable in sed search pattern
how to use variable in sed search pattern
how to use variable in sed search pattern
passing multiple files in sed command: log extract
how to store the output of sed command 
how to use variable in sed search pattern
print all lines from regex to end of file
print all lines from regex to end of file
print value into sed -n
print value into sed -n
print value into sed -n
print text between ( )  sed
delete all lines in a text file that do not contain a string
delete all lines in a text file that do not contain a string
awk cmd to capture the line from stdout
how to grep '---' ? grep: unrecognized option '---'
download all files of a certain type without directories
specify a "-" in a sed pattern
can i multiply pattern match in sed address to print
delete contents of file before xxxxxx
bash while sed is not null
bash while sed is not null
extract part of a log file based on time stamp
getting a string between two string with sed
sed for checking hex syntax
deleting lines with sed where the variable value is empty
bashscript for file search and replace!
how to print a range of lines with sed except the one matching the range-end pattern?
how to print a range of lines with sed except the one matching the range-end pattern?
regex matching using sed 
how to retrieve digits including the separator "."
using sed to print the lines starting with two different patterns
print line after multiline match with sed
bash - selective deletion
how to grep for specific pattern in a file
search a pattern just between 2 other patterns
how to do sum from the file and move in particular way in another file ?
how to do sum from the file and move in particular way in another file ?
grep/sed/awk out everything before a certain line
sed command on linux only matches 1, where on solaris multiple matches are found
how to match sed pattern with :
using regex for address range
how to make this sed 'grab text between 2 keywords' case-insensitive?
replace license notice in every file
failure using sed to filter page
how to read xml file 
extracting the second last line from a table using a specific number followed by an asterisk (e.g. xy.z*)
awk based on row name and export the following 3 and 4 rows
extract data from ascii file with grep/awk
regex to match a particular string in a file
grep (awk) a file from a to first empty line
grep (awk) a file from a to first empty line
grep (awk) a file from a to first empty line
grep (awk) a file from a to first empty line
grep - using get "match" to the end of text file with .* not working
selecting a particular word from a file s
sed print line from regex to regex
bash: extract range with regular expressioin (maybe sed?)
how to grep -n in a file and save lines between two results into a file
grep regex start with, end with and contain a word
multiline regex for a ruby on rails log file
multiline regex for a ruby on rails log file
transform two lines separated by a line into one line
transform two lines separated by a line into one line
how do i delete all lines in a file starting from after a matching line?
find lines between two patterns using sed
awk giving different behavior on different systems
find text enclosed by patterns using sed
using sed to remove lines till the end of the file
how to extract comment out of header file using python, perl, or sed?
regex expression to extract css comments with a shell script
replace line which matches string containing slashes?
counting how many lines continue to next line ?
searching a two digit number in a line of a file through sed
strip bash script from beginning of gzip file
hold buffer to rearrange texts
hold buffer to rearrange texts
hold buffer to rearrange texts
parse sitemap quickly
help with regex - extracting text
merge lines between pattern
how to read data from daughter files and append it to the end of parent file using linux
bash: write regex matches to separate file
finding a line with an unterminated double quote
extracting part of a string using awk or gawk
extracting part of a string using awk or gawk
parse comments and values selectively from a text file using linux
parse comments and values selectively from a text file using linux
how to do a pattern range match that is multi-line and non-greedy?
why does sed /^$/d delete only blank lines but /^$/p print all lines?
how to use variables  regex pattern?
passing sed a variable in a bash script
sed/awk/regex return the lines that ends with three colons
match range of lines in log
how to print text between two line numbers into a new file 
how can i get the soa serial number from a file with sed?
extract k-th line from chunks using sed/awk/perl
using sed to print the lines starting with two different patterns
how to search a file for a pattern and get a new file from the match point to end of file?
select line below search expression in log file
select line below search expression in log file
sed repeat string on every line
sed - how to parse text from some character and send to output separated by comma
sed - how to parse text from some character and send to output separated by comma
how do i print word after regex but not a similar word?
using sed to print range when pattern is inside the range?
how to use grep or awk to extract specific block from a file
how to extract data from one to another string and save to the output
sed to extract text between two strings
how do i cut section with start and end using bash?
print only that which is from start till to the end point
how do i get sed to print a range of lines until it sees two consecutive blank lines?
how do i get sed to print a range of lines until it sees two consecutive blank lines?
how to use sed to remove all lines until first match in first column?
sed find pattern on line with another pattern
shell scripting removing text before and after strings
how to copy lines between two strings to a new text file matching first string fully and second string partially
bash script to pull out x number of starting comment lines into another file
how to get the first non comment line number in a file?
how to get the first non comment line number in a file?
searching and storing specific part of file
searching and storing specific part of file
using multiple sed commands
using multiple sed commands
gnuwin grep only value
regex match against multiple lines at the 
capturing multiline string with regex and replacing it with itself, indented on every line
how to substitute a paragraph in file?
sed expressions: line shows twice
how to select lines containing several words using sed?
sed delete characters between # and # and adding :'s  script?
sed — joining a range of selected lines
awk to grab colo(u)r codes from css files aka school me in awk
awk to grab colo(u)r codes from css files aka school me in awk
remove part of an .xml file in console
how to receive the number of specific entries from xml-file?
bash shell script extract json object
sed substitute and show line number
sed substitute and show line number
sed command to extract text from html
omit the last line with sed
regular expression to match until '{' character?
sed: replacing \n by default
grab value between two strings with sed?
printing text between regexps
sed merge 2 lines after a pttern
sed merge 2 lines after a pttern
how to ignore all lines before a match occurs ?
kornshell - how to print a file starting from a certain string to the end of the file?
numbering lines matching the pattern using sed
how to print the body content of a html page using sed
only show lines with a pattern1 following a line with another pattern2
removing lines between two patterns (not inclusive) with sed
get everything in a file after a grep'd string
selective printing of file
chomping file down
sed word ending with a letter and deleting that letter
copy contents of a file starting from regex word to end of the file
how to use variable in sed search pattern
bash xhtml parsing using xpath
deleting newlines in a range with sed
how to extract data from one to another string and save to the output
replace license notice in every file
sed: print lines between string and another string in one line
how can i extract a tag's attribute value from an html file?
how can i get sed to quit after the first matching address range?
delete file contents after line == "xxxxxxx"
removing two consecutive line breaks
grep trim txt file by certain line number
the concept of 'hold space' and 'pattern space' in sed
sed script to remove everything in brackets over multiple lines
how to get all lines after a line number
truncate comments after closing html tag using bash
bash remove everything directly after html
grep for next blank line after line number
replace values between 2 files
limit (/truncate) text file by number of lines
sed command to get nth tab separated value between lines x and y
grep part of large file without spliting it
grep part of large file without spliting it
regarding grep command
get a range of lines from a file give start and end line number
how can you have grep start searching from specified line number
quickest/most concise bash one-liner for extracting specified lines from a file
how can i extract a range of lines from a text file on unix?
searching for multiple lines including a blank one 
replace commmand not working
multiline sed using backreferences
rearrangement rows to columns on linux
sed with newlines and "
inserting a line to a known block of text
how can i filter a line pattern with sed?
reading until space
bash script read username form file and start program
bash script read username form file and start program
how to get only second line with sed
date conversion doesn't work
date conversion doesn't work
sed single line address seems to go through the whole file
how to get only second line with sed
print 3, 4 and 5 line of the file 
print 3, 4 and 5 line of the file 
select multiple lines using the linux command sed
select multiple lines using the linux command sed
using sed to get the xth, yth, and zth line of a text file
get the contents of a line by line number in perl, awk, grep
get the contents of a line by line number in perl, awk, grep
using sed to get the xth, yth, and zth line of a text file
using head -n within if condition
how to modify part of a single line in sed
how to modify part of a single line in sed
bash get first n non white space characters
how to use sed to delete every other line upto a given line number?
sed scripting : how to search after n no. of lines?
is there a shell command to pick the n-th line?
shell: get lines x to y of file
how do i copy every line x line from a bunch of files to another file?
get a range of lines from a file give start and end line number
pipe sed to diff
how do i extract the text present in the 7th line of a file
bash: print columns from specific line of file?
bash: print columns from specific line of file?
how do i extract the text present in the 7th line of a file
how to crop(cut) text files based on starting and ending line-numbers in cygwin?
how to output lines 800-900 of a file with a unix command?
unix cat to output only range of rows
unix: replace newline w/ colon, preserving newline before eof
how to print a section of file between two regular expressions only if a line within the section contains a certain string within it
sed extract data from dos text file convert to csv
sed: addressing two lines before match
print lines between two regex if string founded in lines in sed
sed/awk - remove blankspaces / join lines in ldif dump
awk or sed to print text between the first occurance of a pattern and the last occurance of a pattern
how do i get sed to print a range of lines until it sees two consecutive blank lines?
how do i get sed to print a range of lines until it sees two consecutive blank lines?
how do i get sed to print a range of lines until it sees two consecutive blank lines?
convert a single column into tabular format
convert a single column into tabular format
use sed or awk - or other text processor - to find/replace a number in a range
use sed or awk - or other text processor - to find/replace a number in a range
changing rows to specific order
how to use an environment variable in sed when finding strings between two patterns?
how to manage dates 
sed: interpolating variables in timestamp format
awk or sed need to remove lines from output if a certain pattern is found
awk or sed need to remove lines from output if a certain pattern is found
bash script to pull out x number of starting comment lines into another file
bash script to pull out x number of starting comment lines into another file
bash script to pull out x number of starting comment lines into another file
unix sed command help
shuffle piped through sed gives different number of lines
reverse the line order of line pairs
how to delete all cjk text appearing immediately after a particular symbol?
 skipping lines
grep special part of string 
need help in converting perl regexp query to sed one
copy text between two strings in a file using bash
special characters with sed
special characters with sed
pick out image url from html
pick out image url from html
simple regular expression parsing 
sed regular expression failure
how to remove the html tags using sed
printing a matched regexp with sed
how to extract substring with sed but first occurence only?
speed up bash filter function to run commands consecutively instead of per line
trying to extract character string out of a line containing another character string using sed
trying to extract character string out of a line containing another character string using sed
how to use sed to test and then edit one line of input?
sed: get two patterns, one before other in line
use 'sed' or other similar command to capture a group and then only output that data
get string between strings 
get any string between 2 string and assign a variable 
how to extract a page title
how to extract text between two words ?
bash - extract integer from logfile with sed
how to print part of regex match in sed when parsing source code?
parsing multiple values from a file
get substring from file using "sed"
how to extract text from a string using sed?
awk regex to find string with pattern
how to grep -o without the -o
how to grep -o without the -o
return a part of a line / catch a group
sed prints out all data instead of substituted part which i want to extract
bash: sed regex ignoring string
how to extract all ids accessed from a mysql general log using the linux commandline?
how to extract all ids accessed from a mysql general log using the linux commandline?
regular expression to extract (video) names from html tags
how to modify part of a single line in sed
shell script : replace contents
unix text parsing
awk or grep question
reverse string with 5 consecutive characters
parsing data in file
regex that considers characters outside the match
how to parse a config file using sed
getting a string between 2 defined patterns with an end of line
how to use sed, awk, or gawk to print only what is matched?
how to use sed, awk, or gawk to print only what is matched?
how to read text between two particular text  scripting
how to remove words of a line upto specific character pattern...regex
sed regex to find name of database in use sentence
processing ping data (regular expressions)
adding extra lines after each line in a file
adding extra lines after each line in a file
linux - bash - get $releasever and $basearch values?
how to extract specific lines from a file ?
ignoring lines with blank or space after character using sed
regex: matching multiple spaces doesn't work
sed substitute and show line number
how to find information in a file using regular expressions on linux
how to remove words of a line upto specific character pattern...regex
get a portion of a line from a file 
sed command is not working
search and print a specific digit from a logfile
search and print a specific digit from a logfile
substitution with sed + bash function
grep or sed — need to extract a particular text
using sed to pull a value from an xml file, and i get whitespace at the beginning. how can i avoid that?
match domain name from url (www.google.com=google)
awk/sed - how to print selection between two patterns?
sed - how to print regex groups in multi-line?
append the end of one line to the start of the next with sed
sed: replace pattern only if followed by empty line
using sed for subtitution in next line
how to replace text using perl/shell script?
substitute string in php from another file
sed regex with replace
what gnu/linux command-line tool would i use for performing a search and replace on a file?
help with sed syntax : unterminated `s' command
help with sed syntax : unterminated `s' command
sed/awk capitallize everything between patterns and lowercase small words
how to remove the multiple word and corresponding line of file using shell script
using sed to parse log to eliminate lines by regex
using sed to search and replace urls except in certain cases
sed capitalize every word on specific lines
execute command on the same line multiple times with sed
copy/paste text with conditional formatting
replace characters using regex grouping with sed
bash scripts to change file names
sed/grep - filter out content
print the first word of the line twice, then the rest of the line
find and replace, but not if near a letter or number
sed question insert colons
sed question insert colons
sed error "invalid range end"
sed: how to replace a string found after a specific pattern is located in a file
sed: how to replace a string found after a specific pattern is located in a file
manipulating space delimited text file
how to remove 0 from a string using sed
about unix command "sed"
about unix command "sed"
word length and substitute using sed - bash
word length and substitute using sed - bash
sed: mix explicit and regex phrases
pad numerical values in filename with three digit value using sed
translate perl script removing control characters in script(1) output to sed
unix: replace every odd | with \left| and every even | with \right|
regular expression to replace a word with another word on the same line unix
overwriting /boot/grub/menu.lst?
overwriting /boot/grub/menu.lst?
overwriting /boot/grub/menu.lst?
remove ipv6 addresses from a list using sed
replacing by using sed wit regexp
sed: mix explicit and regex phrases
finding pattern in a file
finding pattern in a file
sed command to replace if( with if (
recursive wildcard search and replace
sed(1): prepend a line
script to fix onelined markdown
remove date from log files
replace part of lines of a file that match a string 
sed find and replace line containing string after ip address
sed's 'n' command working intermittently
subtraction between two columns with awk or sed
delete lines if $4 is one
sed's 'n' command working intermittently
replacing multiple lines of text using sed
replace each leading tab by four spaces, recursively for every file
deleting multiple words from a file using terminal
grep string and remove 1st character
sed: in-place replacement
using sed to swap columns x and x+1 inline in delimited file
field manipulation
sed mass replace css styles via terminal
replace unknown line in file linux command
in-place sed command not working
sed: replace part of a line
sed for annoying text
how to print a range of lines with sed except the one matching the range-end pattern?
regex matching using sed 
extracting specific lines of data from a log file
get specific lines in a range pattern from a log file
line extraction dependin on range for specific colums
line extraction dependin on range for specific colums
how to get a specific line based on a pattern if found
print only the first word of each paragraph using sed
printing a matched regexp with sed
sed: output value of capturing group into a file
grep and print back reference
sed: how to find only even numbers in a given file using sed
sed for annoying text
un-commenting xml block using sed command
sed replace multiple xml tag
remove xml tags with regex tools
sed: output value of capturing group into a file
delete only lines that contain specific pattern
how to apply two different sed commands on a line?
substitute characters between specific strings
remove blank lines between patterns
replace a line containing sub-string prefixing with the string
how to delete | between multiple back backslash(s)
need to convert the below awk command into sed
sed: parse git --line-porcelain output
how to delete specific words in a line with awk?
parsing memory dump (looking for a more elegant solution)
use sed to replace string of fixed length at certain position - arbitrary pattern
selectively search and replace certain lines using a regular expression
how can i replace text with sed by matching previous line
sed capitalize every word on specific lines
how can i replace text with sed by matching previous line
replace certain strings from text with sed and regex
using sed to search and replace urls except in certain cases
search and replace accross multiple lines in large files
how to extract text which matches particular fields in text file using linux commands
awk or sed help for munging first line of a csv or tsv file
sed capitalize every word on specific lines
insert street sed
sed capitalize every word on specific lines
grep part of nth lines linux
sed capitalize every word on specific lines
sed command to beautify output of an awk command
complex transposing of columns with pure sed
complex transposing of columns with pure sed
remove \n newline if string contains keyword
sed dynamic backreference replacement
substitute text with equal length using sed
how to insert thousand separator with ?
execute command on the same line multiple times with sed
how i can comment (#) 6 lines before and after the matched pattern in sed
how to sort with multiple lines ?
sed replace in large text
searching a two digit number in a line of a file through sed
how to use a sed one-liner to parse "rec:id=1&name=zz&age=21" into "1 zz 21"?
how to apply two different sed commands on a line?
how to use a sed one-liner to parse "rec:id=1&name=zz&age=21" into "1 zz 21"?
gnu sed regex find and alter string (no replace)
sed to edit only part of a file with regular expression
use sed to naively convert a text file to xml
replace lines from file that match patterns in another file
replace path with another path with sed
what do i need to quote in sed s?
add a prefix to all media links in a html file
how to remove double forward slashes using sed
how to delete any string beginning with a backslash?
replace strings with evaluated string based on matched group (elegant way, not using for .. in)
converting files with regexp pattern in sed
how to get base path from path ?
read a file and cut each line based on multiple criteria
linux : cut (with empty fields)
sed command substitution how do you treat spaces or multiple spaces as one?
sed command substitution how do you treat spaces or multiple spaces as one?
shell script string replace in huge file
sed command issues w/ html string replace
refer to the matched string in regex in sed?
appending text at eol not working
sed pattern for "1.2", "1.2.3", "1.2.3.4", "1.2.3.4.5", …
append a string to another with regex tools
sed remove digits at end of the line
sed help substitution string ip
how to add a character in front of multiple words 
script command writting content in windows format
capture delimited phrase with awk then remove strings
sed write a line in a certain way
awk/gsub - print everything between double quotes in multiple occurrences per line
regex expression that matches phrase, unless its already prefixed
extract line pattern from a text file
sed command substitution how do you treat spaces or multiple spaces as one?
using sed to delete item in a list
find and replace a string in a file with sed efficiently
add tabulation in colum csv file
delete last 3 columns from a file
a command that i ran that works wrongly in sed
string substitution shell for latex
sed swap characters in specific positions in strings of varying lengths
bash string split
sed append something in end of the specific match line
splitting a data field into two based on a charatcer count
regex for converting 001002003004.test.com to an ip
converting a "a b  leftsquarebrc c rightsquarebrc  d" formatted file to a csv file
how to add a character in front of multiple words 
sed remove '.' only in part of string
sed statement to change/modify csv separators and delimiters
changing mysql dump to not include the auto-inc column
sed statement to change/modify csv separators and delimiters
sed statement to change/modify csv separators and delimiters
sed: add text at some byte offset after matching pattern
regexp to wrap a line with ${color} and $color
remove all strings of numbers of length 3 or 4 - sed
regex to replace a string in context but not the context
escaping sed strings correctly
delete all characters in line after certain string
converting a "a b  leftsquarebrc c rightsquarebrc  d" formatted file to a csv file
sed: what is wrong with regex
sed: what is wrong with regex
for double outputs in data table, how to move second or more outputs to new line with same index
how to seek forward and replace selected characters with sed
insert text in a column without breaking spacing
how to anonymize all passwords in a file 
how can i replace the existing mac add with a new mac address using sed
how to find/replace and increment a matched number with sed/awk?
transforming data using sed commands
how can i insert a newline after a certain amount of characters
ssed unterminated s command
sed with more than 100000 characters
sed or grep to replace until end of line after pattern match
sed with regular expression
bash/awk/sed match and rewrite a string of numbers (date) in a line
sed regex replace
sed regex with replace
bash selective replacing of dots
sed: removing whitespaces from the middle of text
use sed to add multiple strings between strings
start with 11th word until character '-' is found by using awk command 
using sed to replace only inside a regexp substring
bash selective replacing of dots
the characteristics of the input data
how to use sed to replace partial of a find
how to move a character (in sed?)
regex to replace a string in context but not the context
how can write the multiple files with sed from pattern matched
how to move a character (in sed?)
gnu sed - sustain leading spaces
string substitution shell for latex
string substitution shell for latex
string substitution shell for latex
replace the match itself, not the wild card, using awk gsub or generic regular expressions
replace perticular ip (match exact ip) address with new ip 
how to use sed/awk to remove words with multiple pattern count
selective find/replace with sed
replace text in mulitple files
using sed to search and replace an ip address in a file
sed script to add "std::" before each ocurrence of exception ( in a catch )
i want to change the text with sed editor
sed substitute with quotes and wildcard
question of sed replace
use sed to replace string with regular expression line by line
how to match one word or another, within a single line, with sed
how can i extract the part of a line included between ":"?
display consolidated list of numbers from a csv using bash
extract specific words from a line
parsing a job name out of a server log
how can i extract the part of a line included between ":"?
extract numbers from a string using sed and regular expressions
display consolidated list of numbers from a csv using bash
shell equivalent to php's preg_replace()
adding a character to a specific position of the file for each record 
change last two digits of a number using sed
substitute characters between specific strings
substitute characters between specific strings
find and replace date within a file
sed with more than 100000 characters
sed with more than 100000 characters
sed partial replace or variable
sed partial replace or variable
sed move text before delimiter
removing time stamp from a text file using sed script
sed - reverse dns extraction
sed substitution with backslash in pattern?
remove all strings of numbers of length 3 or 4 - sed
insert a word with sed into a text file
remove leading characters from 12 digit numbers
what is a script to find lines in a text starting with a particular string and prepend # to those lines?
how to group strings with whitespace, using sed?
how to extract quoted string for the first place?
need to parse between second underscore and first hyphen of the text using sed
get substring between first and nth occurence of pattern
regexp find and replace: bash variables inside sed
need to match two groups in sed expression
single-quote part of a line using sed or awk
sed append something in end of the specific match line
using sed or awk, how can i alter the first field in a delimited line?
awk file manipulation
advice manipulating text files using sed and awk
how to filter text with several parentheses ?
sed match ^ not operand with .* anystring matches
get substring between first and nth occurence of pattern
awk or sed to extract words
how to get only last ip from one or many divided by comma on beginning of the line
change value on 11th column based on 9th column using sed
remove text from integer fields in csv-files
print the line, then the last word twice
add quotation marks to a text file
add quotation marks to a text file
using sed to delete characters between the 10th character and the first period after the 10th
sed to replace a character from a column with space but retianing the format
delete space in a specific column using sed or cut
java regex and sed aren't the same...?
ksh: using sed to return text to the right of a pattern
how can i remove the time-stamp from the contents of a log file
stripped first x characters from string script using sed and now store as variable?
removing leading zeros from ip addresses: converting ipfilter.dat to bluetack.co.uk ipfilter with sed
sed: using part of the regular expression to parse the text
how to group strings with whitespace, using sed?
replacing characters with sed
bash replace double lines
merge two blank lines into one
sed: just trying to remove a substring
remove ipv6 addresses from a list using sed
how to mach a string when not followed by another with sed
copy each part of text to the specific place in file ( same file, global)
use sed to search and replace patterns via regular expressions
permute arguments of matrix with regex
sed find and replace
sed find and replace
regex in sed to replace parts of an url given a specific format
how to replace a pattern from a tsv using sed?
how to replace a pattern from a tsv using sed?
remove numbers within brackets only
how to restrict length of string present in a line using linux
why does sed not find the hostnames with this regex?
sed replace " rightanglebrc " to "/ rightanglebrc " bash
sed replace text in a xml file
what is wrong with this sed expression?
is `xargs` the way to go with this problem?
alternation not matching as expected in sed
regexp to get website name from a link?
recursive wildcard search and replace
how to change the output of a log file using sed
android shell sed trouble
how to replace text using perl/shell script?
replacing a string but retaining a part of it from a file
how can i change spaces to underscores and lowercase everything?
sed - replace trailing minus sign
how to add a blank line before the first line in a text file with awk
how to add a blank line before the first line in a text file with awk
bash: how to know num option in grep -a -b "on the fly"?
piping sed to cat via xargs?
replace a statement with another one with shell script
how to replace the last occurrence of a comma
how to substitute a paragraph in file?
adding line with text between pattern and next occurence of the same pattern 
sed command inserts new line after execution - how to avoid?
remove partial string 
sed/tr etc.. : how to comment out a line that contains "string" in a file?
sed command to replace code in file and save
sed regexp multiline - replace html
bash: uncommenting xml tag using sed
sed how to append a comment after  leftanglebrc ?xml  leftsquarebrc something ? rightanglebrc 
bash (sed or awk preferred) to remove everything between first and last instance
bash (sed or awk preferred) to remove everything between first and last instance
how to append the contents of a file into another file starting from a marker?
use sed to modify xml file
how to replace n occurrences in file using sed?
sed: append after last occurrence
sed: how to replace nextline \n symbol in text files?
sed - capitalize first character of a string ended in a dot
is there anyway of converting uppercase to lowercase as well as modifying spaces to text in a file using sed
is there anyway of converting uppercase to lowercase as well as modifying spaces to text in a file using sed
match pattern append line but exclude pattern line
match pattern append line but exclude pattern line
sed delete multiple lines
set xml tags through shell script
shell script to delete certain text from all index.php files on the server
copy contents of xml tag into a new set of xml tags
find word in a file and delete to the end of file
sed - include newline in pattern
how to conditionally replace string with sed
how to conditionally replace string with sed
sed insert file content after specific pattern match
how to go from a multiple line sed command  to single line in script
when to escape special character 
when to escape special character 
convert an html expandable list into tabular or csv format
find pattern and append in sed
a basic require system with bash and sed: substitute for the contents of a file
sed remove from match until match
sed remove from match until match
need to recursively remove license preamble
delete data between two lines inclusive
looping through and modifying a list 
uncommenting a config line based on regex with string replace
delete lines in a file containing argument passed on 
delete lines in a file containing argument passed on 
adding line with text between pattern and next occurence of the same pattern 
sed replace entire line with replacement
newline in sed pattern for a c/c++ function
delete every other row in csv file using awk or grep
how to add one space in the end of the line?
adding line with text between pattern and next occurence of the same pattern 
how to stop a sed script if finding two start patterns before an end pattern?
how to move specified line in file to other place with regexp match (bash script)?
sed whitespace removal within a string
sed multiline regular expression issue
the 'd' command in the sed utility
bash script find line and modify next line
how to append a string at end of a specific line in a file 
delete all lines which has not any value with sed
shell script: overwrite entire line in a text file if a partial match is found
remove a line with condition
replace line after match
insert line after first match using sed
how to do sum from the file and move in particular way in another file ?
using sed selectively
using placeholders/variables in a sed command
sed replace end of line with text and quote
sed. how change line next to specific pattern
or matches with bsd sed
how do i grep out multiple lines of the same pattern?
sed print between patterns the first match result
add text between two patterns in file using sed command
merge lines between two patterns using sed
linux shell: prepend or append text to next line after matching line
insert text in the middle of a text file after the first occurence of a search string using sed
how to use variables in sed
conditional branching in sed
how to use sed to delete next line on solaris
exclude lines by pattern in sed
sed unexpected ',' error
sed unexpected ',' error
duplicate a line containing one or more instances of a variable and then replace that variable in the duplicated line
sed append text after match
breaking line when it's more than 78 characters between two patterns  script
removing a sequence of lines
remove matching line and following line from file
merge two text files at a specific location, sed or awk
search word then search next word then append
remove \n on a few lines with sed
bash - replacing from a pattern to another pattern and everything in between
bash - replacing from a pattern to another pattern and everything in between
how do i delete all lines in a file starting from after a matching line?
how do i delete all lines in a file starting from after a matching line?
eliminate lines not matching multiline pattern
parsing iostat output
parsing iostat output
replace a line containing sub-string prefixing with the string
searching a two digit number in a line of a file through sed
bash and regular expressions to remove tags in a xml file
linux bash scripting to remove certain text
sed: delete lines containig first pattern and not containig second pattern
delimited by comma using awk or sed with the tags below
sed: add exclude=postgres* under base and updates section
how can i match a range between a line and the last occurrence of a pattern in `sed`?
how to delete an entire row if a specific column contains a zero?
using sed to drop strings with repeated and incremental characters?
how to move part of file to its end
any way to access the matched groups in action?
kornshell - how to print up to a certain string in a file
, delete everything between two sets of characters
prepend certain lines of file
remove block-comments from a file with a bash script
use bash (sed?) to remove a multiline /* ... */ style comment containing specific text (regex)
sed to replace multiline java comment with another text
how to make a line as a comment in sed
how to make a line as a comment in sed
issue with "/" and "." characters in sed
sed: delete lines containig first pattern and not containig second pattern
delete lines before and after a match  (with sed or awk)?
copyright character in sed
match lines where a specified column range does not contain the dot character
use sed to modify a line that has an initial space and contains a comma
read a part of json file
remove empty xml tags via bash/terminal
delete all lines between two patterns (exclusive of the pattern) using sed or awk
fast way to replace characters in file ignoring comment lines
removing every character in .txt that isn't enclosed by pipes ( | ) or where the line starts with #
delete empty lines in csv file
multiline log file processing with sed and regex
delete all lines that match a given beginning and 2 possible ends
how to replace 2 new lines by one in the file
delete empty lines in csv file
removing double new lines using awk/sed
sed: delete previous line
how do i remove a line of the form array=...; with sed?
remove all lines starting with a lower case character
ignore comments (#) using sed, but keep the lines untouched
change wifi wpa2 passkey from a script
how do i determine the slowest component of my shell pipeline?
prefix # to output except numbers from 0-100
prefix # to output except numbers from 0-100
bash script. insert a blank line before a number range
sed ignore line starting with regex
file edit- commandline unix
delete all lines which has not any value with sed
remove all lines starting with a lower case character
how to remove character that is not  leftsquarebrc acgtn rightsquarebrc  with sed
how to replace the lower case letters to upper case letter 'c' using awk?
how to remove a line containing specific string from file with sed command
use sed to replace a string with another string obtained from a regex
delete all lines beginning with a # from a file
ignore comments (#) using sed, but keep the lines untouched
using sed to delete all lines between two matching patterns
could sed ignore a part of the input file?
inserting leading carriage return in sed append
parsing and replacing multiple lines with sed
can i use the sed command to replace multiple empty line with one empty line?
how to replace 2 new lines by one in the file
sed/awk to double space file
to remove blank lines in data set
how can i find which lines in a certain file are not started by lines from another file using bash?
remove line from text file given first word
replace word in line only if line number start with + csv file
how can i replace a word at a specific line in a file 
edit a phone list pattern using regex
using sed to match a pattern and deleting from the line to the end of the file
parsing memory dump (looking for a more elegant solution)
use sed to replace string of fixed length at certain position - arbitrary pattern
how can i replace a word at a specific line in a file 
replace any line that starts with the symbol @ using sed, awk, cut
converting fastq to fasta with sed/awk
how do i remove a line of the form array=...; with sed?
my sed code worked... but i have no idea why. can someone help me understand?
using sed to print the lines starting with two different patterns
sed: delete specific lines between two pattern
how to replace multiple lines using bash?
insert lines based on a pattern using awk
how to append something at the end of a certain line of the text
telling sed where exactly to append a string
bash - remove all lines beginning with 'p'
awk/sed broken line how to fix and move some lines
how to replace word which are after match?
sed: truncate long entry across multiple lines
sed: truncate long entry across multiple lines
sed alternative to non-greedy searching
sed: add a word (or a new member) to a set line in a file
remove specific tag with bash
finding line number of first match after given line number
finding line number of first match after given line number
remove price from a file using sed
how to restrict a find and replace to only one column within a csv?
how do i find lines in a file without exactly 35 occurrences of a character?
identify multi-line sql comments /* ... */
sed uncomment specfic xml comments out of a file
delete empty lines using sed
delete empty lines from a file
delete code pattern using sed?
sed + count words on field 3
command-line program to update r markdown code to use `$latex` delimter
add to the end of a line containing a pattern - with sed or awk
add to the end of a line containing a pattern - with sed or awk
update my.cnf auto_increment_offset with last character of hostname
looping through a file and removing certain lines
grab nth occurence in between two patterns using awk or sed
trying to match a string and add it to the replacement
how can i move all lines beginning in 'foobar' to the end of a file?
using sed to replace a text only in lines that matches a specific criteria
sed match multiple lines and then append
sed: append after first match
remove lines based on missing information using sed
can i use vi command (eg.5dd)  programming?
can i use vi command (eg.5dd)  programming?
add lines not beginning with specific regex to previous line
search and delete a block using sed command in ubuntu
remove line from text file given first word
shell script - edit lines in shadow file (':' delimiter)
add a word before the last occurrence of double quote
how to remove text block from file with bash
how to use sed to examine the line without specific content?
how do i find one pattern, then a second pattern, and then append text only after the second pattern using sed?
sed: display lines before a match
how to select lines containing several words using sed?
appending text to the end of a previous line with sed
sed: insert content of file after first pattern match
replace two lines in a file with one new line with bash
sed out of a pair of words
sed(1): add a line at the end of a php array
delete text in file using bash script 
insert multiple lines into a file after specified pattern using shell script
replace a specific pattern with sed
sed syntax for replace with reserved characters
sed only replacing last occurrence of match - need to match all
search for the last occurence of a string in a file and append to it
remove javascript prototype using sed in cygwin
sed - replace several consecutive lines matching pattern
bash : add lines after string match
sed to replace only matching part in search string
sed find replace (inplace replace) using regex
confining substitution to match space using sed?
remove text from lines matching string using batch
remove text from lines matching string using batch
how to do multiple, in place seds for one original pattern search?
is it possible to delete lines containing 2 differents words ?
using sed with 2 search criteria
trying to extract character string out of a line containing another character string using sed
sed regex - matching text between to double quotes when a certain text appears in the line
multiline trimming
replace first match beneath a pattern using sed
shell and sed: adding an array element to a php file
sed remove white space between characters
sed + without cat command
sed + without cat command
sed script to remove whitespace from a region
how to i read a line, modify it slightly and write it back using awk/sed?
delete a line containing a specific string using sed
remove all lines except matching pattern line best practice (sed)
replacement characters in file those don't equal to the pattern using sed
delete code pattern using sed?
how to insert 4 newlines before pattern match with sed?
sed: insert line above pattern and append the pattern space to it
 to find a line and add " before and after the rest of text
 to find a line and add " before and after the rest of text
how to do multiple, in place seds for one original pattern search?
chomping file down
sed word ending with a letter and deleting that letter
in a shell script, how do i replace the first occurrence of a string, after a different string
add contents of b.txt to some part in a.txt using sed or other  tools?
sed change value between tags
sed change value in file
read lines between two specific lines
replace line feeds with sed in a certain range of line
sed remove text to text except last line
sed: delete using a different delimiter
insert linefeed in sed (mac os x)
print first matching line
sed to comment out css file with certain font-family
how to find and replace, skipping lines containing a particular character?
, multi-line search and replace
regular expression, multiline
search for a string and delete duplicates and add new line to second and last line of a text using bash
sed: c command, change only the first line, text deleted
cut a file based on a text marker
sed to insert on first match only
replacing first and second occurrence of the same text with different values
using sed to retrieve and modify a single line in the file
remove all lines before a match with sed
are there any ways to obtain the line number of the matched pattern line?
how to remove only the first occurence of a line in a file using sed
assigning value to variable 
delete a network profile from wpa_supplicant.conf  (raspbian).
using sed how to remove last character only in the first line
delete certain lines meeting a criteria except line 1 + sed
using 'sed' to replace the first occurrence of an open/close xml tag with another tag name
strip bash script from beginning of gzip file
delete contents of file before xxxxxx
delete specific line with sed without deleting other lines with same prefix
cutting a text file from line containing x to first line containing y
match a pattern and print subsequent lines
bash: remove headers from http response
bash, obtain email body from a text file including the email
bash: remove headers from http response
bash: remove headers from http response
unix: easiest way of recursively replacing a block of multi-line text
using sed and/or awk, how can do a sed swap on all text in a file until i see a line matching a regex?
grep +a: print everything after match
how can you have grep start searching from specified line number
sed script to remove first two lines of file if they are empty
sed script to remove first two lines of file if they are empty
bash - how to remove first 2 lines from output
delete a line using sed from a file and redirect the output to same file
how do i delete lines of a given interval in a file containing a matching word?
how do i delete lines of a given interval in a file containing a matching word?
add a sign (#!) in beginning of line in a file
add a sign (#!) in beginning of line in a file
using sed, how can i delete all instances of a string within a range of lines?
how do i delete the first line in a file?
delete a range of lines in a csv file except a line inbetween the given range
delete a range of lines in a csv file except a line inbetween the given range
printing a line of a file given line number
finding last occurrence out of multiple occurrences of a regexp using sed scripting
finding last occurrence out of multiple occurrences of a regexp using sed scripting
insert a text after text on line number 
insert line in the middle of file with standard unix tools
shell: open a file, add a line in a particular position, and replace a particular line. is it possible?
replace 3 lines with another line sed syntax
howto use sed to remove only triple empty lines?
delete certain lines meeting a criteria except line 1 + sed
sed: c command, change only the first line, text deleted
not getting output ing due to mysql query
remove first line of text
how do i delete the first line in a file?
unix - how to append next line to previous line in a file
sed doesn't exit, even though it is done
remove odd or even lines from text file in terminal 
how to add a blank line before the first line in a text file with awk
replace a string before the semi colon
remove double quotes from header in sed
how to append a tab to the end of every line in a text file
sed remove from php first line
how to add a blank line before the first line in a text file with awk
sed remove from php first line
remove junk from a file
remove junk from a file
remove junk from a file
adding text to a csv file through shell script
add pipe as first byte in the first record
replacing one word in one line in a file
delete lines before and after a match  (with sed or awk)?
delete first line of file if it's empty
delete first line of file if it's empty
delete first line of file if it's empty
replace string in one file with contents of a second file
sed replace second last line of file
using sed to erase field in bibtex entry
sed - deleting occurences of first line through the rest of the file
adding or changing variable value
recursive multi-line replace: changing copyright headers
using sed between specific lines only
how to "grep" out specific line ranges of a file
replace line feeds with sed in a certain range of line
copy specific line of ith file to another file as ith line
read lines between two specific lines
bash: use a variable in a sed command
sed, foward slash in quotes
how can i merge two specific lines with sed?
sed syntax to insert a string between two line numbers?
grep part of nth lines linux
fetch nth line of a text file using non-interactive shell script
fetch nth line of a text file using non-interactive shell script
how to append a string at end of a specific line in a file 
how to insert text at the beginning and ending of a specified line?
convert .csv with bash tools
convert .csv with bash tools
bash - replace one string in one with another string from another file
add to the end of a predetermined line using sed 
get the contents of a line by line number in perl, awk, grep
insert contents of file at given line for multiple files, using sed
how to use sed to delete every other line upto a given line number?
how to use sed to delete every other line upto a given line number?
bash: inserting a line in a file at a specific location
linux - how can i insert full contents of file1.txt into file2.txt at line number 4
insert (or append) a line ending with a trailing backslash (\) using sed
get specific line from text file using just shell script
how to use sed to delete lines which have certain pattern and at some specific line range?
how to use sed to delete lines which have certain pattern and at some specific line range?
vim: how to go to exact line on ubuntu
about use sed modify the file？
match specific lines in sed command
sed error complaining "extra characters after command"
merge lines of a txt file using shell script
sed for parsing multiline
sed for parsing multiline
how to merge several lines in the same textfile 
repeating regex replace with sed
sed replace empty space with null
how can i fill out blank spaces in a text file with the word from the line above?
how can i fill out blank spaces in a text file with the word from the line above?
partial data copy while using sed
converting a list of ids to a space-separated ids
sed replaces string by line break but not the other way around
sed command help to summarize similar log messages
remove previous lines then join when sed finds expression
how can i match a range between a line and the last occurrence of a pattern in `sed`?
insert some text after nth matching pattern using sed
sed: replacing end of line
delete two lines with sed if no text between them
get subsection of a textfile using awk, sed or grep
replacing newline character
sed join lines together
global transformation in sed between two tokens
how to repeat all lines containing tagged segments, so that only one segment appears tagged on each line ?
how to repeat all lines containing tagged segments, so that only one segment appears tagged on each line ?
how to remove lines above and below an inverse grep match?
join continued lines together
sed: how can i replace a newline (\n)?
create a path from lines in a file on the unix 
keep letter from letter range regex using sed?
how can i merge multiple lines to create exactly two records based on field separators?
sed: match a string that contains a newline
regex a string with variable whitespace and a newline
removing new line character from incoming stream using sed
forward and reverse search in file after matching string with bash
sed and regular expression
have sed make substitute on string but skip first occurrence
search (e.g. awk, grep, sed) for string, then look for x lines above and another string below
inserting a certain text between in every occurrence of two following tabs
replace leading whitespace with sed (or similar)
can i mention the backreference from different pattern to other pattern in sed
sed regular expression to align function prototypes written across many lines
transpose of data in a comma separated row
replace space only between parentheses
replace space only between parentheses
removing specific character from anywhere between two specific strings?
can i match a multiline pattern with sed
can i match a multiline pattern with sed
regex replacing hyphens in attributes name only
replace all tab characters at the beginnings of lines with 8 spaces?
how to search and replace empty line after specific token?
how can i remove a line-feed/newline before a pattern using sed
need to match a unique string from a file, then remove the entire encapsulated text
replace one character with many with regex
how to pass the path name to sed
sed multiline replace
adding additional newline between each line
 replace \n with \n\n from text (file)
which is the simple and fast unix command to print all lines from the last occurrence of a pattern?
newline in sed pattern for a c/c++ function
replace multiple lines using sed
unix sed command help
removing last comma using sed
using sed to insert some text in a file
removing last comma using sed
sed: finding consecutive *similar* lines -- zip codes
sed: finding consecutive *similar* lines -- zip codes
bash script to change curly brace style regardless of whitespace
sed - regular expression over multiple lines
using a grep-like tool to remove surrounding lines
bash script to change curly brace style
grep:argument list too long
c sed linenumbers on same line
how to combine three consecutive lines of text file in sed?
sorting group of lines
using sed to match comma newline endbracket
merge two lines into one
concatenate lines 
how can i combine these lines
how can i remove a line-feed/newline before a pattern using sed
bash/awk script: newline problems
why is sed not replacing this newline character?
why is sed not replacing this newline character?
bash tool to get nth line from a file
bash: replace an entire line in a text file
one-liner command to empty multiple text files in terminal
how to insert a text?
interweave two files bash script
multiline sed replacement
issue with "/" and "." characters in sed
use slashes in sed replace
sed: how to delete lines matching a pattern that contains forward slashes?
batch file using sed in windows - unexpected append instead of replace
match & extract multi-line pattern in file
insert pattern before match on the same line containing pathname
delete line using sed with dot in string
how to delete all lines in text file that not begins with character # or & or * with sed or grep?
how to replace strings in file based on values from another file? (example inside)
what does the following do: (some command)  rightanglebrc  file1 file2
how to create a bash function with variable parameters/arguments to grep several keywords/tags
sed: find pattern over two lines, not replace after that pattern
sed character replacement in portion of a line
grep invert search with context
how can i remove hashes from inside a string?
how can i remove hashes from inside a string?
sed whitespace removal within a string
using sed, how can i replace all occurences of x with y, but only after seeing z?
sed replace character only between two known strings
ksh and at&t sed, break lines matching pattern
using sed  script
remove odd or even lines from text file in terminal 
delete every seventh line using sed
clarification of 'sed' usage
unable to filter the first row in terminal by awk
delete a matching pattern with sed
how to apply two different sed commands on a line?
grep sed command
line breaking  script
manipulating xml file with sed
search and replace html tags (with slashes) in sed
what can i use sed to search for a string and append /sub1 and some file ../ before search string
regex issues matching html tag
splitting single line into multiple line in numbering format using awk
how do i escape double and single quotes in sed? (bash)
sed is not working when i use variables
regexp greedness: shrinking long path
copy text between two strings in a file using bash
question about how to make a filter using script
changing the contents of a text file
replace /**/  with an empty space
sed replace urls in file and re-save
sed replace expression "within" a regular expression
sed - remove specific subscript from string
use sed to naively convert a text file to xml
unix sed command regular expression
what do i need to quote in sed s?
wrapping markup sentance with sed
using sed in osx to rename files
using sed in osx to rename files
how i can delete something from file?
how to search for a string and replace it with other string ?
sed in ubuntu linux, replacing a pattern by printing in a new line
simple script that replaces a variable by a path with awk
alternative to grep
alternative to grep
alternative to grep
unix: how to translate "/" when using search and replace command by sed
getting a string between two string with sed
replace special charaters in a string with escape sequence  programing
how can i find & replace text in html, htm, php and txt files on a linux server?
shell script to read file line by line does not work
how to remove last directory from a path with sed (not using dirname)?
replace forward slash with double backslash enclosed in double quotes
how to delete all text appearing between two symbols with sed?
parse all text in a list before equals sign
sed to replace value in .bashrc
extracting particular fields in a single file traversal
use slashes in sed replace
shell scripting using sed
remove groups of spaces
replacing specific spaces with colons in a text file
sed command substitution how do you treat spaces or multiple spaces as one?
sed command substitution how do you treat spaces or multiple spaces as one?
extracting text from line
remove variable parts of an input list
remove variable parts of an input list
removing line numbers (not entire line) from a file 
replacing strings in files with regex
kshell read a file and define record length then strip ascii 20 characters from the end of each record
sed pattern replace, trailing spaces ending with + only with +
escaping the '\' character in the replacement string in a sed expression
sed remove all content in line after \t
unix command for extracting start of line based on delimiter
linux : how can the sed command filter all fields except first and last?
how do i remove all the text after a certain character on a line, and do the same on each line?
how can i remove all characters in each line after the first space in a text file?
replacing a pattern to the end of a file with sed
sed: no previous regular expression
add column to middle of tab-delimited file (sed/awk/whatever)
csv formatting in batch files
how to join two id's into a single column?
sed + remove spaces between diffrent char with "," seperator between them
change a single row into columns in a file
how do i format a file in 4 columns?
get the newest file based on timestamp
replacing chars in only a part of a substring... will sed work?
remove all words after starting from a specific word
cut the log text string  in sun solaris 9?
sed match date format apr 25, 2013
sed command substitution how do you treat spaces or multiple spaces as one?
sed command substitution how do you treat spaces or multiple spaces as one?
convert an html expandable list into tabular or csv format
bash script for searching and replacing tags
sed to remove from a character to a character
removing tags using sed
bash echo -e equivalent using sed and tee
how can i use sed to get an xml value
easiest method for removing html/xml  leftanglebrc tags rightanglebrc  from single-line output
sed/regex: how to match a ' leftanglebrc ' or ' rightanglebrc ' in a string
using curl, grep, and sed to extract data from html
sed command 
how replace many lines at the same file with sed?
using sed to delete node and data from xml file
sed replacing unwanted part of string
sed - add text to variable
bash scripting - getting number output onto screen as result of previous command
sed command issues w/ html string replace
deleting scripts interfering with each other in  leftanglebrc head rightanglebrc  tag
refer to the matched string in regex in sed?
how can i use sed to get an xml value
sed replace error
sed replacing unwanted part of string
shell scripting: sed putting unnecessary paranthesis
regex space character in sed
shell scripting: sed putting unnecessary paranthesis
shell scripting: sed putting unnecessary paranthesis
how to replace whitespace with one blank using sed?
how to delete words which start with some specific pattern in a file 
how to replace whitespace with one blank using sed?
how to replace whitespace with one blank using sed?
change a tab to a semicolon?
change a tab to a semicolon?
script to fix onelined markdown
listing all words containing more than 1 capitalized letter
remove links from text
replace multiple consecutive white spaces with 1 comma 
change a tab to a semicolon?
change a tab to a semicolon?
optimize sed multiple expessions including white spaces and square brackets
how to replace all the occurences of chars like ' leftsquarebrc ' , '(' etc with '\ leftsquarebrc ' , '\(' using "sed" in a file?
how to delete the string from the file 
sed multiple characters inside a getops
gnuplot datafile multiple separator
gnuplot datafile multiple separator
how to add one space in the end of the line?
replacing special character by tab separation
sed remove digits at end of the line
how to double digits using sed command ?
sed - replace first occurence of number in middle of string
how can i recursively rename files via bash-scripting?
append a string to another with regex tools
remove all numbers and dashes from text file?
sed - substitute either of two characters with one command
use sed with ignore case while adding text before some pattern
why is case insensitive search and replace not working in solaris sed?
escaping characters in variables inside sed expression
bash sed delete a line from cron
stripping hex bytes with sed - no match
text manipulation using sed or awk
points to slashes with sed
stripping hex bytes with sed - no match
how to remove control characters from standard input, except tabs?
regex: how to replace truncate characters up to a given character?
sed. blank a field in csv file that includes symbol
replace everything between two character
how to modify specific columns using sed
extract integer from string using bash
fetch numeric value from string
bash scripting: using sed and cut to output a specific format
sed extract version number from string (only version, without other numbers)
match non-numbers except forward slash using sed
replace a string before the semi colon
how to remove a string between a pattern using sed / awk command 
modifying fasta headers with unix  tools
remove non-english and accented characters from a flat file using unix shell script
rename multiple files with bash for loop, mv, and sed
how to tell sed "do not remove some characters"?
sed to replace "_", "&", "$" with "\_", "\&", "\$" respectively
regex space character in sed
regex space character in sed
how to get 10th grouping value in sed?
regex using | with sed
what does //g mean?
xmllint problems to output lines
sed replace " rightanglebrc " to "/ rightanglebrc " bash
sed replace text in a xml file
replace one letter in string
remove all the text using sed
sed: "repetition-operator operand invalid" using capturing groups
extract the string between quotes of particular occurrence 
how to capitalize all letters inside quotation marks using sed?
import csv line break woes
convert a file path into string
how does bash expand escaped characters when dereferencing variables
bash, find and replace - re-use with variable?
replace all double quotes with single quotes
csv formatting in batch files
fix improper quotes in text
fix improper quotes in text
replacing quotation marks with \quotation and \quote
what's wrong with this shell/sed script?
how to replace regex pattern with a new term in sed?
how to replace regex pattern with a new term in sed?
how to replace regex pattern with a new term in sed?
removing matching text from line
removing matching text from line
regular expression and sed to remove all occurences of some string from hundreds of files
find and replace string and what's following it
find and replace string and what's following it
remove tabs from file
confusing sed one-liner in makefile tutorial
how to add a character to the end of each line in a file 
replace string that contains crlf?
how to print to file  and display it as "cat" would show
unix commandline for inline replacement of all newlines in file with  leftanglebrc br rightanglebrc \n
how to print to file  and display it as "cat" would show
append to start and end of first few lines
sed - inserting a comma after every 4th line in plain text file
add symbol to the end of each string in the file
how can i print a newline as \n ?
linux replace newline
is it possible to add constant column during join ?
replace \n with \r\n  file
how do i convert text files ? (foo.txt to bar.txt)
how to append to an existing line using sed
using awk to pull specific lines from a file
adding new column using awk command adds the whole content to the last?
bash script prepending ? to file name
how to use a bash script variable with sed
how do i use unix variable inside an html file
replacing a pattern using sed command
how to pass arguments to .sql file from shell script
short way to escape html ?
deleting strings with sed regex
using sed to match emails in a sql dump and replace them
pattern matching using a variable in sed
how do i convert a tab-separated values (tsv) file to a comma-separated values (csv) file ?
sed match pattern \ttext\t not working
sed wildcard search tick (') and replace
how to replace ' with sed?
deleting strings with sed regex
sed wildcard search tick (') and replace
how to replace ' with sed?
find by regex and replace match to lowercase 
sed or regex how to remove everything between round brackets
replace last character in a line with sed
remove string between two delimiter, inclusively
confining substitution to match space using sed?
extract last tuple
rearrange data
rearrange data
replace exact part of text in a string (fstab) using sed
sed modify only submatch in file
sed/awk replace word in specific position of sentence
sed/awk regular expression to remove first set of parentheses
replacing strings in brackets in sql file
remove string between two delimiter, inclusively
sed substitute with quotes and wildcard
how to delete string from specified symbol till the end with sed?
sed, awk, regex to modify chemical terms
how to replace to apostrophe ' inside a file using sed
to insert line breaks in a file whenever a comma is encountered-shell script
can anyone provide a sed or awk way to delete last two columns for the csv file?
can anyone provide a sed or awk way to delete last two columns for the csv file?
using sed, i need to replace all ",\n" with ",\.\n" including the last line
how to remove a character at the end of each line 
sed delete number between single quotes
to collect awk output in while using pipe
sed with literal string, not input file
unexpected eof while looking for matching `'' while using sed
sed with literal string, not input file
bash, put a space after a specific coma
how to modify a single separator in between the text
removing extra commas from comma delimited file
unable to get sed to replace commas with a word in my csv
cutting last n character in a string using shell script
how to add one space in the end of the line?
adding line with text between pattern and next occurence of the same pattern 
sed command garbled didnt work
how to do change wit sed  script
backreferences in sed returning wrong value
what is the difference between sed and awk?
need to extract a part of a number and save it in a variable ing
using awk/sed to parse out multiple strings from a mysql error
how to count occurrence of specific characters in file using awk command using associative array
why is sed matching minimum and not maximum string?
replace a row in a csv file
filter text between quotes or  leftanglebrc   rightanglebrc 
filter text between quotes or  leftanglebrc   rightanglebrc 
get string between characters sed
grab value between two strings with sed?
how to print a partial text from a given text using sed
adding day of week to dates in a text file
sed script for duplicating the line on that same line
how to add a # before any line containing a matching pattern ?
sed substitution and external command
print text at end of semicolon sed/awk
write a sed command to extract words
bash extract ip from log file and save to ext text file
sed/awk : match a pattern and return everything between the end of the pattern and a semicolon
sed/awk : match a pattern and return everything between the end of the pattern and a semicolon
matching pattern containing parentheses with sed
capture last xxx characters
capture last xxx characters
shell programming --extract values of 2 key words
extract 10 digits from a string
extract 10 digits from a string
sed: using search pattern in output
sed: using search pattern in output
sed command to fetch particular string from full string
how to reverse sed output?
strip characters before period if filename has prefix 
extract a substring of 11 characters from a line using sed,awk or perl
how to use regular expressions to return only a part of a file name?
removing a portion of a string that has forward slashes in it
extract pattern with text editors
parse string with bash and extract number
updating matching line with sed/grep
bash script: delete characters in string up to and including a phrase?
awk - how to add a full stop?
how can i add a new line to a large file every n characters in terminal (one liner sed)?
sed + cut words before the first “end” word in line
regex space character in sed
how to chop last n bytes of a string  string choping?
add new line using awk, sed
how does this batch code create unwanted files
sed -i option is not working on solaris
pass command output to a variable in batch
what does //g mean?
how to remove 0 from a string using sed
how to replace a value with the output of a command in a text file?
what does dash e(-e) mean in sed commands?
how to get list of file names and their sentence containing a specific search string?
sed regex replacing too many characters?
sed and regex issue
using sed to find and replace a range of numbers
add a new line after match is found
global transformation in sed between two tokens
bash, extract string before a colon
replace second instance a character
adding word to a field common to all records in a file
how do i remove colons from a list of mac addresses?
using sed to split a string with a delimiter
unix shell script remove one column from the file
replace random text between a constant starting and ending string using shell command
replace random text between a constant starting and ending string using shell command
how to replace a pattern with newline (\n) with sed under unix / linux operating systems?
how can i get the soa serial number from a file with sed?
bash script - mass modify files sed regular expression
how to scan pool of ip if port is open or not? and list it
replace ';' with ';\n'
issue with a regex in a sed script
delete ';' at the end of each line
change last two digits of a number using sed
how to make sed pattern "intelligent"
bash: strip a line of some patterns
replacing domains of e-mail addresses with just one domain
scripts: how to remove hex strings in a text file
using sed to copy lines and delete characters from the duplicates
how to search and replace pattern in a text file using a script in ubuntu
output of one command is argument of another
output of one command is argument of another
selecting the text string
substitution till the end of the line 
sed - insert text after other text
string substitution from text file to another string
unix - copy modified source file to destination file
awk - stripping out lines of ddl
scripting insertion of variable to config file
tr command not working as expected
how to use sed to delete some string
find and replace
using sed to replace a pattern causes extra characters to appear
trimming output of script
shell: adding a new line between a given line of text
bash find and replace with sed
bash find and replace with sed
using sed to replace text in a template file with variable containing quotes
trim column to fixed length in file 
substitution of a word with two words and a space using sed
error while trying to use references in sed
how to append a newline after every match using xmlint --xpath
how to remove double forward slashes using sed
sed: use regex to replace ' leftanglebrc ' char with '&lt;' in many xml files
sed - remove specific subscript from string
how to remove square brackets and any text inside?
remove string between two character with sed
how can i say this in sed?
replace text between 2 characters in vim
removing time stamp from a text file using sed script
how to replace this kind of string using sed?
bash: changing a specific line in a file, to something which includes the line
parsing string with grep
remove string between two character with sed
how to remove matching pattern?
use sed to match any character and carriage return inbetween anystring and  leftsquarebrc 
substitution of ! with sed leads to event not found
how to use sed to remove all double quotes within a file
find and replace  for variables
search and replace $ signs with sed
replacing chars in only a part of a substring... will sed work?
sed to replace partial string
how to remove duplicate words matching the pattern from every line of a file 
sed or string replace command  to change last first character after sequence to uppercase
delete last 3 columns from a file
sed : removing alphanumeric words from a file
regex (sed) that may need to capture multiple expressions per line
sed to replace a line with containing wild card character
sed expression , char xx: invalid range end error caused by hyphen
how can i use sed or awk to correct a log time format
split a string variable through shell script
convert all date fields in a record from yyyy-mm-dd to mm/dd/yyyy
adding delimiter to a file
sed remove the spaces in numbers only not in string
bash dateformat  leftsquarebrc date rightsquarebrc t leftsquarebrc time rightsquarebrc z to normal datetime
seperating a nested field into two new fields, maintaining order
sed swap characters in specific positions in strings of varying lengths
replace every other occurence on the same line
make ips anonymous in output of web analytics tool - perl or sed?
change number format
issue with reformatting a date using sed
how to sort the following file using shell script?
gnu sed remove spaces from digit number in text file
only keep the first letter for strings in any field of a tab-delimited file
using sed to remove the beginning of a line until capitalized word
replace a sentence more than once
sed editing a line
sed editing a line
globbing and grouping issue in a regex in sed
trim column to fixed length in file 
how can i make this sed capture accomplish a more complex substitution
how can i replace commas per newlines, but only if they are not between brackets?
swap columns using sed
sed or awk regex, stop matching after semi-colon
use sed to replace first 8 and last 4 pipes on every line in a file
sed script how to swap 3rd and 2nd field in each line
converting scientific notation to tex math mode format
how to enclose every line in a file in double quotes with sed?
how to add double quotes to a line with sed or awk?
replacing _ to - with sed , but only within href-attribute
sed and awk causing line wrap-around
splitting a file and its lines under linux/bash
placing every character on a new line
first character of a variable in a shell script to uppercase?
remove trailing letters at the end of string
how to replace a number of character with a single one?
kshell read a file and define record length then strip ascii 20 characters from the end of each record
splitting two columns for which combine due to large values
how to remove the milliseconds from timestamps with sed?
sed and regex issue
add curly braces to string after a match (sed)
use sed/awk/grep to change order of a sentence
substitution after the end of the word
search a pattern and swap 1st value to second value after pattern match
sed regex match first occurance
understand sed usage
sed with regular expression
replacing nth character using unix magic
shell scripting - replace every 5 commas with a newline
how to seek forward and replace selected characters with sed
remove a character inside a csv file using sed
split a big txt file to do grep - unix
remove a character inside a csv file using sed
two float numbers ara attached together in my output text file
sed append after match?
replacing letters in a word at his reverse sed
add new column with data split from existing column using awk
rename part of file name based on exact match in contents of another file
bash - replace string inside all files in directory
sed - how to get the first 2 sentences of a paragraph?
how to use sed to find and replace items, only if the match is not bound by letters or numbers?
how to use sed/awk to remove words with multiple pattern count
removing parts of string with sed
sed replace string with condition
elif conditional statement not working
elif conditional statement not working
sed to replace lower case string between two strings to upper case
confusing sed one-liner in makefile tutorial
sed usage with remembered portions
sed: region followed by number
shorten sed statement?
sed refuses to replace pattern - rightanglebrc  file (encoding) error?
sed one-liner to delete all digits 0-9 that happen after a period
remove only the last extension from file name
bash script to remove dot end of each line
sed:replace a series of dots with one underscore
how to replace double period with single period in a file with sed or awk?
sed remove last 4 characters
trim the end of n-th column unix
let xgettext find keywords in comments
sed can not work in script file in windows
sed: how do i change the value of the last column in a file?
sed: how do i change the value of the last column in a file?
replace with sed on mac os x leopard doesn't do what expected
tr + sed in one time on large file
reformat text in in a file linux via a bash script
how to replace text using perl/shell script?
modifying jenkins description for a build
sed replace over newlines?
appending unique ids to existing strings
why does this multi-line shell script not work using cygwin, although in one line it works?
"sort filename | uniq" does not work on large files
modifying jenkins description for a build
how can i use sed to get an xml value
the characteristics of the input data
splitting lines into columns
how to use grep for collecting url links?
remove links from text
substitute all occurrences of n spaces with a single character
add new column with data split from existing column using awk
linux command to get lines in specified format
how do i convert a tab-separated values (tsv) file to a comma-separated values (csv) file ?
inserting a certain text between in every occurrence of two following tabs
how do i get rid of this unicode character?
remove variable parts of an input list
how do i trim lines read from standard input on bash?
using sed to remove characters from mysql
reformat spaces around a particular character using tr / sed / awk
find the number of entries in a file and remove those enties using a shell script
add tab separator to grep
linux : how can the sed command filter all fields except first and last?
sed/awk + line manipulation
sed/awk + line manipulation
sed/awk + line manipulation
using google as a dictionary lookup via bash, how can one grab the first definition?
how to split the rows using awk?
r data.table fread command : how to read large files with irregular separators?
sed - know the matched text as test before doing real substitution
sed - know the matched text as test before doing real substitution
sed + removes all leading and trailing whitespace from each line on solaris system
how to remove leading whitespace from each line in a file?
how to set matches in a list, set them to a variable, reformat output and pass it to another script?
compare execution log's ignoring the execution times
how do i delete the numbers at the begining of a each line file?
bash scripting removing optional  leftanglebrc integer rightanglebrc  leftanglebrc colon rightanglebrc  prefix
sed: how to remove special characters before the numbers?
replace exact string 
replacing a pattern to the end of a file with sed
how to group strings with whitespace, using sed?
sed time and http request from access logs
replace missing content with sed
sed deletes differing portions of text
bash: how to change first column of a file and only the first column
extracting part of a string using awk or gawk
get a number from a string using sed and regular expression
get substring between first and nth occurence of pattern
parsing a file with following a pattern
extract stuff between the first pipes ?
is there a easier way to edit these lines
need to implement  following thing
stripping single and double quotes in a string using bash / standard linux commands only
remove from the beginning till certain part in a string
sed not splitting getting substring i want
bash, retrieving two sets of particular strings from across a text file
sed command to extract text from html
parsing string with grep
regexp (sed) how to 1-escape special chars and 2-group them
what's the meaning of this sed command? sed 's%^.*/%%'
sed: replace a line containing a pattern
get text between two strings 
how to remove words of a line upto specific character pattern...regex
delete the first 5 chars on any line of a textfile 
convert an html expandable list into tabular or csv format
tab separating the values
how to delete the first and last two characters from a text file using sed?
how can i remove the time-stamp from the contents of a log file
translate regex substitution from regexr to work  script
how to add some data from bash variables to the beginning of all lines in a csv file?
how can you change a column of numbers to a space separated list 
using awk to pull specific lines from a file
grep - how could i search a file for numbers from second file
escaping entire urls for use in regex commands
escaping entire urls for use in regex commands
sed to insert characters in a specific column
how to replace  leftsquarebrc 10-15 rightsquarebrc  to 10 11 12..15 
using sed to insert text at the beginning of each line
ubuntu:- append remove keyword to a file
how to quickly replace many matching items with a single replacement ?
how to use sed command to add a string before a pattern string?
how do bash local file descriptors work?
sub-group finding
how to replace the first n occurrences of one character with another using sed
how to replace the first n occurrences of one character with another using sed
using bash, how to assign integer to variable using echo
using bash, how to assign integer to variable using echo
bash remove a char from line
regular expression to parse common name from distinguished name
regex for appending text using sed
how do i push `sed` matches to the shell call in the replacement pattern?
bash script strip string matching pattern
formatting with bash and column 
regular expression: back references
formatting with bash and column 
how can i remove the time-stamp from the contents of a log file
awk output formatting and syntax
awk output formatting and syntax
using sed or awk, how can i alter the first field in a delimited line?
using sed or awk, how can i alter the first field in a delimited line?
sed to insert colon in a mac address
gnu sed match first vertical bar and alter
remove strings after each first word in a text file
if first space is 2 space, make it 1 in a file
unix/bash: how do i add columns containing the same value in a file with  rightanglebrc 1m columns?
how to replace ip address after comma 
how to strip off digits at beginning using sed?
how to rename fasta file headers using sed
sed regex replace on solaris
sed regex replace on solaris
unix shell sub string?
adding word to a field common to all records in a file
regular expression and sed to remove all occurences of some string from hundreds of files
performing regex capture and then substitute using sed/perl
how using sed can i remove all chars in a line after a given position until a "."?
replace string in a file using sed
change date format in first column using awk/sed
changing the first letter of every line in a file to uppercase
a sed command to swap first and last character of each line
sed issue on unix vs linux
sed issue on unix vs linux
how to modfiy environment.rb through sh script? (i.e. modify line in file through script?)
bash substitute first character in every line
use sed to duplicate a line in an xml and keep the same indentation
pattern matching 
sed remove last 4 characters
sed remove last 4 characters
reformat how a number is displayed in a line of text file with sed
replace string in another file with sed from bash script
bash substitute first character in every line
how to delete spaces before string begin and after string ended
remove file's substring to index in terminal
remove file's substring to index in terminal
replace a line in the file using sed, line has a moving portion in the center of it
sed - match not beginning of line
regex replace (sed or perl) with variable capture
solution for echo to replace globally
is it possible to tell sed to perform a maximum of one substitution per line?
how to use sed command to add a string before a pattern string?
replace exact string 
replace exact string 
improving regex in sed to replace values that matches string=value
using one from the "grep" family. how do i get the lines i omitting the search term?
find string and replace line 
how to delete first column from the file 
repeating regex replace with sed
how to print all columns but last 2?
bash remove trailing characters until dash alphanumeric
using sed to modify a header
separate a string
replace differently for different occurences with sed
sed to replace "_", "&", "$" with "\_", "\&", "\$" respectively
how to repeat a pattern and modify with a "tab" with sed
prepend to regex match
remove underscore and capitalize character after it
what gnu/linux command-line tool would i use for performing a search and replace on a file?
how do you specify non capturing brackets in sed?
how to replace the whole line with sed?
remove string with sed in pattern with numbers
remove string with sed in pattern with numbers
remove ipv6 addresses from a list using sed
replacing string in file unix
how do you "debug" a regular expression with sed?
sed replacing unwanted part of string
alternatives to sed extended regular expressions
sed replace if part of word matches
extracting multiple substrings from string using sed
sed regex, work on substrings and not on whole line
how to find and remove multiple sub strings in a string
sed substitution with bash variables
how can i count the occurrences of a string within a file using bash?
replace string in xml file
how to search and replace a content of a file using shell script?
redirect tr output to sed
replace up to nth match
regex in notepad++ like sed
replace up to nth match
case-insensitive search & replace with sed
how to use sed command to add a string before a pattern string?
getting retrieving exact input to bash from 
confusing sed one-liner in makefile tutorial
extract and replace a token 
delete first part of line
swap values in sed when they match a regex
using sed to replace text with curly braces
tree functionality using sed and find command
replacing a string using sed doesn't work
sed: use found string as a variable
sed help: how to replace a text pattern containing brackets
how to append a string to all occurrences of another string in file
manipulating xml file with sed
search and replace .xml using (super) sed
search and replace .xml using (super) sed
issue with a regex in a sed script
issue with a regex in a sed script
find and replace text in a document
print both matched and unmatched lines; awk: print matched group
sed find and replace
remove single word from file - bash
using sed to replace 'price' with 'g:price'
special characters causing problem in perl
if line contains the letter r followed by a digit
how to insert a newline in front of a pattern?
search and replace linux
how do i use pipes in a makefile shell command?
how do i use pipes in a makefile shell command?
are there any ways to obtain the line number of the matched pattern line?
why doesn't this simple regex work with sed?
improving regex in sed to replace values that matches string=value
select part of filename using regex
select part of filename using regex
recursive change sed grep and sed
anchors inside of  leftsquarebrc   rightsquarebrc  in sed
edit multiple lines of a file locally and then rename multiple times- linux
shell: how to replace something of a text with the saved variable value
how do i replace all occurances of a string on each line?
using wildcards in sed command
how to write in the middle of a file (bourne shell script)
how to write in the middle of a file (bourne shell script)
how to write in the middle of a file (bourne shell script)
using sed to remove text between x= and a space unexpected behavior
delete last word in each line 
formatting a list for a hash in perl with sed - adding single quotes
why would change with "sed" via putty not reflect in cpanel?
why would change with "sed" via putty not reflect in cpanel?
won't delete or replace £ (pound) sign
sed replace characters in a string
sed only replacing last occurrence of match - need to match all
insert with sed
replacing the value of input tag across multiple files
sed: change word order and replace
removing text between "|" delimiter and "," delimiter using shell script
sed remove everything between first and second instance of a character?
unix command for extracting start of line based on delimiter
sed search replace pattern (bash)
sed to remove character pattern from end of line?
replace string recursively using sed
echo to standard input or stdin
how replace many lines at the same file with sed?
modify the source file 
find patern and append and replace it in file
why sed command can work directly and can't work when i write it in script file?
why sed command can work directly and can't work when i write it in script file?
sed delete first match
grep print only after match
sed substituting double character pattern with single character of the pattern
sed command and grouping
sed: how to edit a line that have some contents needed to be remain after substitution?
using sed to extract html data
bash: only last iteration of loop index not being stored as new element of array
i want to delete a string from each line in a file
sed renaming with unknown amount of characters before a "
regex in sed to replace parts of an url given a specific format
inserting quotes to pipe separated line using sed
sed replacing literal ${something} within xml tags
tree functionality using sed and find command
sed: replace character at the beginning of a string of n characters
tree functionality using sed and find command
how do i replace a token with the result of `pwd` in sed?
using date variable inside sed command
sed/awk insert lines in specific place in file
using curl, grep, and sed to extract data from html
escape a path for sed search pattern
command 'sed' didn't work on solaris
sed remove a numbered content from a pattern
sed remove a numbered content from a pattern
how to replace a string using sed
sed replace string with special characters
some text replaccement issues. please advise
convert date format in last column with awk or other
using sed to pull out base url of full website
how to understand sed with complex replace?
sed: replace a specific part
failing to use $pwd with sed, bash
failing to use $pwd with sed, bash
sed command and grouping
awk search value and get column
add prefix and suffix to all lines in all files?
why "extra characters after command" error shown for the sed  shown?
bash - sed replacing text
bash - sed replacing text
regular expressions in sed
remove  leftanglebrc /strong-tag in a text-file with sed
sed replace " rightanglebrc " to "/ rightanglebrc " bash
why sed not working properly in script
sed or awk, copy aside to create anchortext
bash sed substitution in httpd.conf
what is wrong with this sed expression?
change url to filepath
grep, sed... awk to modify lines in a file
remove or replace double quotes from values of xml (specific search and replace)
replacing html closing tags in sed
bash sed find and replace matching to first instance
search and replace string  bash
how to pass output from sed into cp command?
script to modify php array elements in hundreds of files
sed regex isn't being as greedy as it ought
sed regex isn't being as greedy as it ought
sed special character
sed command : how to use variable
sed command : how to use variable
why sed not working properly in script
regex negation : matching patterns other than specific strings
regex negation : matching patterns other than specific strings
join string to the left side of output
replace url() relative path with full domain in css files
obtain a string from 1 line string using grep, egrep, or sed with regular expression
selecting the text string
cut and paste a line with an exact match using sed
cut and paste a line with an exact match using sed
remove everything after the first / including the first / for each line
unable to filter rows which contain "is a directory" by sed/awk
replacing strings in files with regex
sed substitution on c-style (single-line) comment
can i use sed to manipulate a variable ?
sed error when substituting pattern with variable
replace string in one file with contents of a second file
shell bash, cat file whilst using sed to replace text
replace matches of one regex expression with matches from another, across two files
replace matches of one regex expression with matches from another, across two files
regex to replace a pattern
how to remove with awk/sed the characters that show up as sub in notepad++
deleting lines from text files based on the last character which are in another file using awk or sed
using sed to extract html data
perl/awk/sed one liner for removing directory name from a text file containing list of paths
how can i replace lines in a text file with lines from another file based on matching key fields? 
extract specific strings from line in file and output to another file with modifications
replace matches of one regex expression with matches from another, across two files
replacing a string but retaining a part of it from a file
sed non greedy curly braces match
issue with substitute sed on bash
sed with combination of regex and literal string
replace text with spaces & special characters
how does bash expand escaped characters when dereferencing variables
how to replace comments with /*xyx*/ from unix file?
using sed with variable containing url
remove all the characters from string after last '/'
escape the 'escape' value of the last escape slash in a file
find and replace part of a string using bash in an xml file
find and replace part of a string using bash in an xml file
find and replace part of a string using bash in an xml file
how do i run the sed command with input and output as the same file?
how to uncomment multiple lines on second pattern match using sed?
how to delete the first occurence of a bibtex entry using sed?
how do i find one pattern, then a second pattern, and then append text only after the second pattern using sed?
why these simple shell commands fail when used in sed's replacement part
swap two strings simultaneously
convert vowels from upper case to lower case and lower case to upper case using sed
is there any equivalent command grep -np "\t" some_file , using sed or awk
sed - how to delete everything but the last n lines?
using sed to pull out base url of full website
spread 'sed' command over multiple lines
spread 'sed' command over multiple lines
getting an error with sed expression
grep data between 2 patterns ing
minicom runscript does not understand variables
expect script does not expand bash substitution of date command into send
escape $ in expect script
escape variable with windows path
shell script automation
expect / bash: running a bash if statement in expect
send using sed with variable
get total memory of a host /expect
send a mail from shell script in ubuntu
how to pass argument in expect through  
check the exit code inside a if statement before existing script
change sendmail sender using bash
for loop 
descending loop with variable bash
linux commad line zip with regex
to create a file  command (sed or other)
to create a file  command (sed or other)
batch avconv re-encode videos halfway through the list
piping seq to printf for number formatting
bash - selecting random file pairs
using a loop with xargs in one line
generating a comma-separated sequence of numbers based on input 
is there an easy way to get the posix shell to interpret numbers with leading zeroes as decimal?
generating huge lists of numbers
bash sequence 00 01 ... 10
bash sequence 00 01 ... 10
range with leading zero 
shell: undefined behavior of `for`
piping seq to printf for number formatting
how to produce range with step n ?
loop  from 0.01 to 0.5
for-loop of a specified size  behavoir
how do i iterate over a range of numbers defined by variables ?
assigning variables in for loop 
gnu parallel - which job failed?
is it possible to get the segment number in an xargs invocation
is it possible to get the segment number in an xargs invocation
matlab and gnu-parallel
one-liner: print all lines except the last 3?
is it possible to get the segment number in an xargs invocation
how can i generate a file of random negative and positive integers in serial?
append a code to every other line in a set of files
getting a specific line from a string where the line number i must get is stored in a variable?
removing chunks of lines with sed
how to concatenate two files with an indentifer in a loop?
does zenity have a limited list size?
how can i make a program overlay text on a postscript file?
how to delete and replace last line in the terminal using bash?
bash script only starts new jobs when old batch is finished
bash script only starts new jobs when old batch is finished
applying same command on different input files to different output files
extract file using bash in one tar file but composed of many tar files inside
purpose of read rev in this bash oneliner
android tasker app advance input shell command
syntax error near unexpected token `do' when run with sudo
pipe awk output into c program
find the sum of an infinite series
processing a headered csv file with gnu parallel
gnu parallel: output each job to a different file
parsing data from files with numbers in name to a single file according to numbering
using gnu parallel with split
shell script, how to port checking based on range . example: port no 10000 - 30000,
how to use sed to output lines containing odd numbers which contain an even digit?
how to use sed to output lines containing odd numbers which contain an even digit?
bash shell script to calculate an address in a subnet
awk - how to improve this example (part iii)?
redirecting output of bash for loop
how to launch a huge number of processes 
awk- string expression
bash script random number not entirely random
loop background job
finding next open port
finding next open port
awk-like begin and end with ruby command-line
batch avconv re-encode videos halfway through the list
circular shifts on strings 
increment number in url address
bash: trying to append to a variable name in the output of a function
suppress non-matching lines in grep
add/remove # (hash) from crontab
adding support for scp and sftp for curl on linux
reading data from properties file 
gpio command for raspberry not working via crontab
how to list included bash functions?
launch meteor with a shell script
how can i access bash variables in tcl(expect) script
index arguments in zsh
require explaination for some variables used  script
is is possible to put into clipboard the result of a shell command?
unable to access value from for loop  when run from cron
wildcard error in iteration of a bash script - shell
bash: !.url": event not found while extracting filenames
bash pipestatus in backticked command?
process substitution - node.js child_process
bash: print each command before executing?
how to debug a bash script?
unix equivalent of '@echo on'
bash shell parameter expansion ${ }
loading variables from a text file into bash script
passing two values from awk to bash
hpux shell script: split string, put them in an array then loop them
how to remove nth element from command arguments 
change a  argument - bash
why does $@ work different from most other variables ?
running multiple shell scripts without arguments  x
translating #!/bin/ksh date conversion function into #!/bin/sh
my understanding of `set --` wrong?
need to printf script's arguments
explanation of convertor of cidr to netmask  netmask2cdir and cdir2netmask
how to change the value of a function's parameter  script?
awk appears to disconnect my db2 session when piping
unix - how to construct ifs for passing in context of file
using output of command to generate autocompletion commands for zsh
bash array working in command prompt but not working when executing as ksh
what does  rightanglebrc | do ?
bash script variable array name
shell scripting: die on any error
aborting a shell script if any command returns a non-zero value?
how to write a shell script that runs next command even if current command fails?
how do i prevent a continuous loop from ending
bash doesn't quit on syntax error
bash stop curl outputting to screen
is there a try catch command 
exit from bash infinite loop in a pipeline
cut a variable to it's fields one by one
how to set environment variables in fish shell
how to prevent tmux from filling up the global path variable with duplicated paths?
trapping chld signal - zsh works but ksh/bash/sh don't?
how do i make bash history permanent under freebsd?
how to see which  editor is set
zsh make **/*.cpp **/*.cxx **/*.hpp not result in error
zsh make **/*.cpp **/*.cxx **/*.hpp not result in error
bash doesn't quit on syntax error
how to terminate shell on 1st instance of failed command ( search for 1st instance of string and append to it )
how to trap on_error  globally?
bash: debug option and functions
how can a sourced file inherit trap debug?
is there a way to switch bash or zsh from emacs mode to vi mode with a keystroke?
how do i make bash history permanent under freebsd?
how to make a kornshell script to go to new line
what does  rightanglebrc | do ?
how to make * = '*' ?
how to keep bash function parameters from being expanded
bash script search for file and replace if string found inside file using wildcards
print all commands with pathnames
design patterns or best practices for shell scripts
shell: analyse return
bash pipestatus in backticked command?
check for zero lines output from command over ssh
combining wget and zenity/yad
access $? variable with a piped statement?
how to list variables declared in script ?
bash: print each command before executing?
how to debug a bash script?
xcodebuild - build succeeded - rightanglebrc  bus error
can't find out why my bash script is exiting after access denied
tracing shell commands executed withs (e.g. zsh)
jekyll command runs in every new terminal window
debian bash script works fine from ; fails in crontab
having bash print the files it sources
grep across the file system has no output in a shell script
is there a command to dump local variables in a bash script?
unix equivalent of '@echo on'
java option -xx:onoutofmemoryerror does not work when called through exec  scrip
bash arithmetic expression (( in compound statement  leftsquarebrc  leftsquarebrc  returns true?
how to silently disable xtrace in a shell script?
echo some s in a shell script (echo on for single command)
extract only date from date and time
bash: back quotes and eval confusing behavior
junit test equivalent in cli
maven system variables
maven 
should environment variables that contain a executable-path with spaces also contain the necessary quotes?
for loop, on which partition is windows. 
run a batch script from any location
maven system variables
run a batch script from any location
setlocal on path environment variable does not work
setlocal on path environment variable does not work
setting the jvm via the  on windows
how to customise the postgresql/psql prompt?
pythonpath as agrument to python interpreter
change directory in batch file using variable
read user input with spaces in csh shell script
read user input with spaces in csh shell script
windows cmd equilvance of this command
problem passing parameter to applescript via terminal/bashscript
how to assign chdir to a variable in .bat?
:t 
sed replacing content with star
what does $@ mean in a bash script?
read user input with spaces in csh shell script
how to use grep in csh script
how to read in long list of parameters into gdb/ddd
character case conversion uppercase to lower and vice versa
can i put something in rc to hide text editor (~ extension) files?
disable visual bell on centos
is there a balancing scheme repl for *nix?
tweaking bash 'cd' and tab completion to recognize spelling mistakes
list all environment variables from ?
how to execute .csh script with  arguments from .csh script
how to execute .csh script with  arguments from .csh script
are these two vi-related `.inputrc` lines redundant?
how to randomize file-names with batch file command string?
how do i get the equivalent of dirname() in a batch file?
how to tell gnuplot not to print fit log on screen?
how to tell gnuplot not to print fit log on screen?
running a command with specific environment settings - one-liner
gnuplot plotting large numbers in exponential format
how to read env variables inside shell script?
bash/expect script echo result wrong
how do i find where a executable is present in macosx?
using powercfg to duplicate the currently active power scheme
config sql*plus to return nothing but data
in except, capturing a simple linux command into a variable
are these two vi-related `.inputrc` lines redundant?
find & copy a string in a file using only windows batch
when adding a textlog to echo , input wont show up
passing variable to this particular sed command
how to compile/jump-debug using cmake/gcc within vim
vim: good way to setup makeprg=xcodebuild?
script not logging to log file. why?
batch file setting double quote a variable
reading into directory, unix shell script
run two commands in one windows cmd line, one command is set command
sql plus/shell script: extra newline printed
when running a shell script, how can you protect it from overwriting or truncating files?
how to define a gnuplot output file as a variable?
unix-expect:capture the output of a command as a expect variable
unix-expect:capture the output of a command as a expect variable
filezilla,open site directly using 
escaping variables in path names using csh
escaping variables in path names using csh
how to translate small bash code to csh / tcsh (setting gnome terminal title)
parse the output of command in a shell script and store the result in a variable
shutdown stderr and redirect message to stdout
is it possible to make a script of commands to be run within vim?
c-shell script issue
vim -- not recognizing aliases when in interactive mode?
vim -- not recognizing aliases when in interactive mode?
vim errors on vim startup when run in fish shell
using bash calculator in a vim script - strange behaviour
how do i get vim's :sh command to source my bashrc?
alter $path in vim/macvim so as to find the right ruby binary
terminal vim not loading .zshrc
how do i set bash to show autocomplete options on a single tab press?
self concatenate strings on csh
self concatenate strings on csh
how to define a custom `textwidth`  in vim editing mode
using asobjc runner to abort a shell script command in applescript
explain batch command please
explain batch command please
unix, assign value to a variable in c or kornshell (ksh)
vim - trying to go to next line with right arrow key
gdb: format of backtrace command: frame line divided into several lines when running in another shell/ssh
logging location of lftp
why can't i execute my xlabel offset on my gnuplot bash script?
escaping quotes for sqlite3
escaping quotes for sqlite3
cdpath functionality in powershell?
powershell or  to set wallpaper on windows 8.1?
shell interface in tmux does not work
how do you switch to zsh when using nitrous.io
how can i shift all window numbers down by the appropriate number to “collapse” the window numbers?
why does tmux erase terminal contents on editor exit?
permission denied in running script
generate random text file in terminal
phalcon documentation: installation/freebsd
how to run my own programm using command ?
why is this tcsh shell script giving the error while setting path ld_library_path
csh script variable substitution
how to permanently chmod 777 for php
how to permanently chmod 777 for php
how to set same permissions for all files under a shared folder
how to compare two lines, which are inverted respect to space
bat file: variables have wrong value untill next execution of bat?
batch file for loop to unzip files and get timestamps of zip file contents
split svnversion output 
zsh autocompletition on alias not working
ubuntu 14.04 apt/aptitude autocompletion with oh-my-zsh not working
case-insensitive glob on zsh/bash
how to get quoted arguments in the correct way?
i/o redirection differences between zsh and bash
how to disable a zsh special variable (bang tilde !~)?
zsh not re-computing my shell prompt
do zsh or bash have quotes that are convenient for english text?
zsh clear rps1 before adding line to linebuffer
pipe multiple commands to a single command
emacs multi-term as a log
how to disable case-sensitivity for filename auto-completion in emacs 24 shell-mode?
unix bash script run program in background using screen
bash - unzip: command not found
how to launch multiple applications from a sed file
positional parameters in a script read with the source builtin in zsh
positional parameters in a script read with the source builtin in zsh
capturing multiple values for single argument 
capturing multiple values for single argument 
how to execute command after opening new tmux session
how to amend environmental variables using  in windows
forcing environment variable changes to take effect immediately
how to move files via ssh from hostgator to godaddy directly? possible?
shell sftp download remote file
linux sftp :file transfer error
sftp inline put without interaction
single line sftp from terminal
is there any auto-escaping way for grep with variables?
generate a random number/string or an iterator in sed 's/'
prompt being ignored when executing remote shell script locally
how to execute sh for all the files in current directory
how to execute sh script for files beggining with minus and including spaces?
pipe params into script
bash: variable defining environment variables
missing matching quote with su -c  script
run script commands from stdin, with arguments
read command ing
how is the stdout and stderr redirected here
three levels of parenthesis/quoting  snippets in tcsh?
three levels of parenthesis/quoting  snippets in tcsh?
why when i run sh -c  leftsquarebrc script rightsquarebrc , it won't accept any positional parameters?
why when i run sh -c  leftsquarebrc script rightsquarebrc , it won't accept any positional parameters?
cd to symbolically linked directory fails in cron environment
where is the syntax `while ifs= read line` documented?
python subprocess call is not working
how to use  rightanglebrc  in an xargs command?
how to use  rightanglebrc  in an xargs command?
how do i use the ant exec task to run piped commands?
what is wrong with this command?
linux shutdown with dbus-send
do a tail -f until matching a pattern
difference between bash and sh -c option
how can i create a process  that has zero overhead but which gives me a process id
weirdness when packaging with xcrun (codesign fails when using variable)
run text files in terminal
bash script: turn on errors?
bash loop ends unexpectedly looping without showing why
run aspell on manpage
grep across the file system has no output in a shell script
shell syntax error near unexpected token `done' 
run three shell script simultaneously
selecting a gradle build file from directory above using the 
using cut on a result of running another bash script
how to run bash script in my android?
output of a shell script is another shell script
imagemagick crop huge image
location of shell script file, which is to be executed by local git hook
pipe params into script
executing shell script from current directory without '"./filename"
server command-line automation (updating the project)
bash can't create a file when calling from php
how to turn off necessary backslash before round brackets  argument?
sending system.out to a file and commons logging
difference in invoking shell script from within another shell script
bash programming - how to transfer the content of variables to another bash file
bash programming - how to transfer the content of variables to another bash file
using openssl to read multiple certificates
how to execute sh for all the files in current directory
weird "permission denied" exception when running bash script on ec2 (ubuntu)
clojure.java.sh: no such file or directory
how to run .profile inside a shell script in ubuntu
how to change example.bat to example.pl?
why won't my version of bash accept function keyword?
redirect stdout and stderr to file and stderr to stdout
shell script not working at startup even it add in /etc/rc.local
shell get the last character of a string
how to run a .sh-script in an unix console/mac terminal?
run bash script from windows powershell
series of perl scripts. bash, batch, shell?
how can i run a shell script every 5 seconds for 2 minutes?
executing multiple python commands 
create sh and bin file to execute all sql scripts in folder
shell script to create folder daily with time-stamp and push time-stamp generated logs
using tee command to create time specific log files
shell script source: not found
find and copy to new file using sed
automatic rvm installation
portable way of getting a fd filename of a commnd stdout in a shell script
read glob from  bash
shell script : replacing and adding characters in a string
system hacked ld preload modifies /usr/bin/host
how to append a file name  with a string and current date
how to stop running script by using different script
how to execute sql queries from a shell script
how to find a list of ip addresses in another file
diff script error
bash getopts not able to recognize arguments
bash getopts not able to recognize arguments
#!/bin/ksh not working in redhat linux
executing shell script from current directory without '"./filename"
is there a way to force a shell script to run under bash instead of sh?
open zsh scripts in sh-mode in emacs
create user with custom shell using vbscript
what should the assembly names be for an application providing both a gui and command-line interface?
cron job full path: still getting broken pipe errors
integrating bash with php
how to get "random" number based on a string ?
output of one command is argument of another
shell script - how would i compare the same files of different dat
 utility  to output hashes
shc on mac showing 'killed: 9' error
retrieve plain text script from compiled bash script
use shell parameter extension in makefile
eval not working  makefile
execute bash commands from a rakefile
bash getopt accepting multiple parameters
fill array passed as argument  function
unable to use checkjobs and autocd  4
bash blank alias to 'cd'
unable to use checkjobs and autocd  4
unable to use checkjobs and autocd  4
what is your single most favorite command-line trick using bash?
why quote removal isn't performed between  leftsquarebrc  leftsquarebrc  ...  rightsquarebrc  rightsquarebrc ?
does bash support word boundary regular expressions?
how to activate full $var completion
interpolate variables in path (bash )
how to loop through a set of files in subdirectory and operate on them
how do you replace a directory with its children?
bash source and alias issue
prevent a command in a shellscript from being executed inside another shellscript
pbs (torque) scheduler doesn't load my aliases from .bash_profile when a job runs?
how can i delete all files in my folder, except music -subfolder?
move all files except one
bash case syntax - meaning of "-@"
composite patterns inside bash case statements
string manipulation, optional character
filename substitution gives syntax error in script , works in console
remove all files not listed by lsof in a folder
copy all files in folder, into a folder within that same path
syntax error, unexpected token ... what's causing this?
bash: pattern match not working
parentheses don't work  script
using brackets/parantheses inside shell scripts vs using them from the  bash
shell script: list all entries that don't contain a number
how can i delete every file but one extension
tarballing only directories which match pattern
unable to enable globstar  4
what expands to all files in current directory recursively?
how to use sed command to search and replace recursively in subdirectories?
how do i move just the files with a particular extension from nested sub-directories?
globstar paths  file
remove the last n lines from all files of a certain type in the current directory, recursive
removing a line from multiple files using grep & sed
what is your single most favorite command-line trick using bash?
bash: refer to previous arguments of current command
when did hup stop getting sent and what can i do about it?
bash: getting history editing like kornshell
how to do a case insensitive for loop ing
case insensitive check in if loop using regex 
bash for loop includes wild characters (*.c) if no files with extension .c. how do i get around?
do not start loop if there is no files in directory?
unix wildcard substitution
bash : for loop on files that don't exist
get first file of given extension from a folder
store all subdirectories of /volumes in an array (bash)
how can i use inverse or negative wildcards when pattern matching in a unix/linux shell?
bash match string with regex
bash for loop includes wild characters (*.c) if no files with extension .c. how do i get around?
store all subdirectories of /volumes in an array (bash)
bash case syntax - meaning of "-@"
shell script: list all entries that don't contain a number
unable to enable globstar  4
php is displaying my source code?
using mysql  client
using mysql  client
using mysql  client
join each two line with awk
shell programming - interpreting use of $? with function call
shell programming - interpreting use of $? with function call
add a number to the beginning of every-line in a .lst file
random number from a range in a bash script
explain this bash expression
how to i choose a random number between 20000 and 64000
generate file filled with content from a set of files with any size in a given range
get a list of lines from a file
generate file filled with content from a set of files with any size in a given range
how to random lines in txt with bash
bash - selecting random file pairs
bash language randomize order of words in .txt file
is there a command to restart computer into safe mode?
shell script to change .pdf files to .png mac os 10.3
improving process for using imagemagick to batch convert tiff to png and resample
total size in a module
how to know the files inside the tar parser
download new duplicity archives only (bash)
linux - launch recordmydestop during specific time
echoing to a command after a delay 
how to make the scp retry till it succeds in case of a failed attempt?
is there a way to make bash job control quiet?
sleep duration manipulation in performing repitative bash command
bash script that kills a child process after a given timeout
wget hanging, script stops
running exec on wget commands in a file from bash script ignores wget options
running exec on wget commands in a file from bash script ignores wget options
how to get the time after two minutes
can i suppress background process info?
how do i run multiple background commands ?
how do i run multiple background commands ?
limit execution time of shell_script in php
execute process in background, without printing "done", and get pid
how can i create a process  that has zero overhead but which gives me a process id
vnc bash problem
rather high cpu usage with memory monitoring bash script
execute process in background, without printing "done", and get pid
execute process in background, without printing "done", and get pid
why can i do "cmd & ; cmd2" in zsh but not bash?
bash: save in a variable the number of seconds a process took to run
how do i schedule a timed reboot of my server in seconds?
how do i schedule a timed reboot of my server in seconds?
shell script spawning a process after a delay
what does "2 leftanglebrc &1" redirect do in bourne shell?
bash: if command hasn't finished in a given time - change variable
alert when file content changes
trim slocate results. find all instances of a specific directory
what happens when the filesystem can't keep up with output from bash redirection?
use grep to parse data
use grep to parse data
only get folders using smbclient
bash - how to manipulate response all to one line?
awk: print string in file2 not matching with string file2
udp sniffer similar to netcat tcp sniffer
bash tail on a live log file, counting uniq lines with same date/time
how to create pseudo terminal pairs from 
how do i count number of instances of an output in awk?
how to catch softwareupdate output
get owner of one file, and apply it to another
copy specific line of ith file to another file as ith line
remove variable parts of an input list
remove variable parts of an input list
ignoring specific errors on shell script
what does the operator "2 rightanglebrc  rightanglebrc " do ing?
stop linux bash script when segmentation fault occurs
pipe tail output into another script
pipe tail output into another script
passing arguments with spaces between (bash) script
using regular expressions 
trim junk characters from variable
using regular expressions 
trim junk characters from variable
technical term for a while loop
bash: append command output and timestamp to file
alter environment after a command
alter environment after a command
how to use multiple commands after || 
highlighting python stack traces
parsing json data columnwise 
parsing json data columnwise 
simple terminal command question - is there a command to pull a certain line out of an input?
tee to a compressed file
print stdout/stderr and write them to a file ?
shell scripting and sqlite3
unix redirection issue:  leftanglebrc /dev/null 1 rightanglebrc &- 2 rightanglebrc &- &
unix redirection issue:  leftanglebrc /dev/null 1 rightanglebrc &- 2 rightanglebrc &- &
unix redirection issue:  leftanglebrc /dev/null 1 rightanglebrc &- 2 rightanglebrc &- &
how to write a bash script that takes optional input arguments?
how to escape strings  script
awk using space in character class
lambda functions 
finding the differences between two files
bash script doesn't set variable when run from script, but works fine from prompt
bash script doesn't set variable when run from script, but works fine from prompt
how can i copy files with names containing spaces and unicode, when using a shell script?
how can i copy files with names containing spaces and unicode, when using a shell script?
runing script with here_doc method in background
why does this snippet work?
removing rows that don't contain strings from csv file, using one-line reg exp grep/sed
how can i replace the existing mac add with a new mac address using sed
can someone please explain the below code and the following query too
can someone please explain the below code and the following query too
echo starts a sub-shell in a parallel process?
how to pass a password  script?
how do i write shell-like scripts using ruby?
finding common rows in files based on one column
redirecting multiple stdins?
how can i use a bash array as input to a command?
basic shell programming
bash shell script to take in a text file and output a sorted file
how to write shell script that filter for lines and count them?
sort ignores an apostrophe - sometimes (except when it is the only column used); why?
bash sort quoted csv files by numeric key
sorting through shell, awk, bash?
using sort -m to sort by month
unix - randomly select lines based on column values
select random lines from a file 
sort filenames without leading zeros
how to sort alphanumerically  with sort? more complex than seems
how to sort primary column with alphabet order then secondary column with numeric order?
confused about gnu `sort(1)` of a numerical sub field
confused about gnu `sort(1)` of a numerical sub field
sort -c output being redirected to a file: linux command
bash: only last iteration of loop index not being stored as new element of array
sort by just month name and day. bash
order a sequence of dates as they occur in calendar year
how can i sort by first column textually and then by the second numerically with 'sort'?
sort on non-contiguous fields: posix equivalent to 'sort +0 -1 +2'
how to pick top line of each group of related lines with awk after unix sort
stable sort 
why linux sort is not giving me desired results?
removing duplicate rows from notepad++
linux bash 'sort' in dictionary order - problem with zeros
how to sort over two columns with exponents 
bash shell - sort a list of words by the second letter?
sort , sort based part of column
sort , sort based part of column
find oldest files in the directory based on the filename timestamp 
how to do `sort -v` in osx?
sort by 12-hour time?
sort a text file by a certain field in place /python
need to match a pattern occurrence only once in a file
splitting large file into small multiple files based on the column concatenation
cut or grep to catch particular pattern
cut or grep to catch particular pattern
sorting 1 before 10 
fastest way to sort files
sort and uniq oneliner
sort and uniq oneliner
order a sequence of dates as they occur in calendar year
sort logfile by timestamp on linux 
reinsert delimiters after using awk and sort
reinsert delimiters after using awk and sort
sort lexicographically and numerically at the same time
the sort command does not work as expected
sort on part of the line, keep order on tie
bash sort row with positional key
sort using awk?
sorting data based on the value in second column of a file
bash sort by file name like gnome does
sort file according to the second column?
how to sort logs files by date iso8601?
can sort | uniq or sort | awk count repeated values from one column?
sort file according to the second column?
unix: sort by uniq
automator service shelll script :sorting selected text wrt second parameter
sort lots of large compressed files
merge sort gzipped files
merge two sorted files using awk or python
print lines if $2 leftanglebrc 25 from text files with sed or awk
how to use awk to find the largest and smallest numbers?
bash sort for resolution
get the newest file based on timestamp
sort lines in file based on specific location character
how to arrange the lines in ascending order
how to arrange the lines in ascending order
linux - numerical sort then overwrite file
count query 
merging two files with columns 
reverse sort order of a multicolumn file 
how to sort content of a text file in terminal linux by splitting at a specific char?
get 1 line with the same field in a file using shell script
sorting number of lists according to indexes and priority
get the newest file based on timestamp
sort and uniq oneliner
merge two files according hours
median of column with awk
generating histogram from file
 sorting file content and redirecting output to the file
does linux sort have incompatible arguments
bash: how to redirect the result in to another file
how to sort  script?
why sort f  rightanglebrc f will delete everything?
do i need to generate a second file to sort a file?
sorting a file without using temporary files
shell: script to group strings by substring
how to remove duplicates by column (inverse ordering)
bash- is it possible to use -uniq for only one column of a line?
linux sort $2 & $17 in numerical values, sort distant columns
how to remove duplicates by column (inverse ordering)
how to remove duplicates by column (inverse ordering)
how to remove duplicates by column (inverse ordering)
svn status | sort - does not sort the output
sorting  while other field doesn't change
sorting file names ascending where names have a dash 
sorting html 
how to use non-printable char as field separator of sort command ?
bash: different sort output on files with identical first column
sort multiple tabs but ignoring spaces
sort - what if there are missing values in some columns?
finding common rows in files based on one column
sorting csv columns more than once
what does the k parameter do in the sort function (linux bash scripting)?
what does the k parameter do in the sort function (linux bash scripting)?
what does the k parameter do in the sort function (linux bash scripting)?
what does the k parameter do in the sort function (linux bash scripting)?
how to sort by hh:mm:ss.xx in ksh in aix 5.3?
unix sorting, with primary and secondary keys
sort an xml file based on a content within a tag
sort data in file with bash scrip
sorting a csv file from greatest to least based a number appearing in a column
linux sort -help wanted
bash script - construct a single line out of many lines having duplicates in a single column
can sort | uniq or sort | awk count repeated values from one column?
sort and remove duplicates based on column
bash script to kill screens with the same name
sort file with port/interface numbers
sort by third column leaving first and second column intact ()
sort specific column and order everything by high number to the low
custom sorting 
bash: sort csv file by first 4 columns
how do i merge filea.txt and fileb.txt giving fileb.txt overwrite power using a bash script?
how to get max number from a file  bash shell scripts
pick unique lowest row 
sorting with unix tools and multiple columns
sorting with multiple keys  sort command
parsing csv to print line with highest score using bash shell
bash sort and multi-character tab error
bash: sorting strings with numbers
get a sorted file list on a directory by using linux bash script language
removing duplicate lines from file /grep
how do i read, modify and write to the same file without involving a temporary file in zsh?
sorting unique by column - sort command?
sort and uniq oneliner
sort & uniq 
how to remove duplicates from a file and write to the same file?
is there a way to 'uniq' by column?
linux sort and make unique text not by entire line but string position
how to get unique entries in a file 
bash script to save grep -c results
counting distinct elements in a large list too slow
replacing an sql query with unix sort, uniq and awk
bash script to remove duplicate entries
how to merge two csv files not including duplicates
trying to merge files after removing duplicate content
count the number of lines, matching a pattern, but only the first occurence
count the number of lines, matching a pattern, but only the first occurence
delete all occurrences of a string if it occurs even once in a file
shell script to remove duplicate entries from file
how to find identical lines from the following list
listing files 
executing shell scripts for each ip found in grep  leftsquarebrc solved rightsquarebrc 
sort & uniq 
how to output difference between two text files?
bash script to save grep -c results
basic shell programming
basic shell programming
how do i count numbers from ?
how do i count numbers from ?
shell or awk script to group duplicate entry using first field and find difference using last field
filter a file using shell script tools
bash numbering csv content on unique field
how to sort multiple files? unix
sort data  shell
uniq - skipping last n characters/fields when comparing lines
how to get the count of duplicate strings in a set using grep, uniq and awk ?
sort data  shell
comparing two files using shell script
merging contents from two files in one file using shell script
how to only print lines with unique fields?
getting word count with grep
count occurences of strings in a fileusing grep or sed?
count occurences of strings in a fileusing grep or sed?
line length counting bash
best way to simulate "group by" from bash
bash script: count unique lines in file
remove duplicated files  fs with ending e+$
remove duplicated files  fs with ending e+$
remove duplicated files  fs with ending e+$
merging list problem
using sed to delete lines present in similar file
how compare two paired list ?
bash. get intersection from multiple files
how do i sort a file in place using bash shell?
extract unique lines from a file in order of their first occurence 
rearrange column's elements and display count
number of occurrences of unique rows in a file
return list of triplicates
return list of triplicates
shell script: count the copies of each line from a txt
linux search a pattern and print its count
i want to print 1 version of duplicates and remove unique lines  linux
count the number of lines, matching a pattern, but only the first occurence
how to find the numver of duplicate lines, each line contains a few numbers seperated by spaces
removing redundant data
export a variable with dynamically created name  script
json config to bash variables
executing generated commands 
execute bash script from url
use a grepped file as an included source 
source a file into current shell using ruby
sanitise variables sourced from another file
declaring variables in external script
source a file into current shell using ruby
command return as variable
how to activate python virtual environment by shell script
rvm is loaded first in $path
.zshrc not working (accidentally deleted first line)
source all files in a directory from .bash_profile
how do i display rvm's current ruby and gemset in the terminal prompt?
function defined in .zshrc not found when called from a script
calling bash script in the same context from parent directory
source bashrc from script failing
export works  but not in a bash script
set environment variables from file
export /etc/environment variables to current environment; from a shell script?
how to intialize a variable from another script ?
set environment variable /access in java program
exporting a variable to another bash script
setting variable in a file does not work
bash unix shell script to accept input and set system variables
can't source script in a current directory
linux environment variables setting disappear
syntax error near unexpected token `do'
dot space (  leftsquarebrc dot rightsquarebrc  leftsquarebrc space rightsquarebrc  leftsquarebrc filename rightsquarebrc  )
what's wrong with this basic shell script exporting something
how to list processes detached in a script?
mysql path doesn't work
having bash print the files it sources
using bashrc to define an alias in ubuntu
having bash print the files it sources
how to run .profile inside a shell script in ubuntu
zsh not recognizing my aliases?
bash's source command not working with a file curl'd from internet
bash: how refresh shell after installing virtualenvwrapper  leftsquarebrc without restarting the shell rightsquarebrc ?
can't start service with sudo since root user has no access to ruby
run "python manage.py runserver" from a bash script
can i install a msys .bashrc file on a usb drive?
saving data ?
how to write commands into shell script?
extraordinarily simple shell scripting question: making sticky changes?
calling bash script in the same context from parent directory
su -c in a bash script won't show any output
bash's source command not working with a file curl'd from internet
read and execute lines with spaces from file 
problems for show branch in terminal
problems for show branch in terminal
how to setup virtualenvwrapper in zsh under linux mint?
how to include file in a bash shell script
run a bash script within another script
bash / take value from .sh file
how to return from sourcing function in sourced code?
how to terminate execution of a fish script from a sourced file?
bash: export not passing variables correctly to parent
how does the shell script envsetup.sh execute lunch?
changing bash parent shell
how to modify an exported variable from child
how can i create directories during a copy /zsh/ksh?
is it possible to move variables above those upon which they depend?
why are bash script variables not saving?
bash script: paste and execute an external bash script
declare variables from a shell script in the shell
comparing keywords from 2 files and replace a value associated with the keyword from one file to another
loading shared library into bash terminal
can a bash function be used in different scripts?
how to create script which activates virtualenv?
unix script - setting dynamic variables (indirect variable reference)
'globalize' bash functions inside of a bash script
bash: the run-command to the result header
call "exit" from with
create and execute a shell script  home directory
how to run 'cd'  and stay there after script finishes?
problem executing tcl script from bourne shell (redirection trouble)
sending a parameter with space to another script 
set java_home from bash script
setting enviroment variables dynamically on linux
setting permanent path through a script
how to change directory through a script file
bash script tail and export misbehaving
programmatically start a series of processes w\ job control
shellscript reading variables from a file
prevent a command in a shellscript from being executed inside another shellscript
how to get list of all child process spawned by a script
how to get list of all child process spawned by a script
how to include a file containing variables in a shell script
activating a virtualenv using a shell script doesn't seem to work
virtualenvwrapper.sh functions not available 
can executable shell scripts be generated in python?
vim -- not recognizing aliases when in interactive mode?
installing ruby with homebrew
terminal: where is the shell start-up file?
how do i edit the path variable to include a variable
aws  interface "as cmd not found"
about .bash_profile, .bashrc, and where should alias be written in?
how do i reload .bashrc without logging out and back in?
how can i execute a bash function using sudo?
need to reload bash every time i open terminal?
setting an environment variable in cygwin
adding git alias to .bash_profile not working
how to make changes in .bashrc effective in current terminal
raspberrypi shutdown script
set a rails environment variable locally (mac os x)
debugging my cron application
how to dynamically add to $path on linux / os x
source a file into current shell using ruby
adding git branch on the bash command prompt
reload .profile  script ()?
reload the .profile file
how to run .profile inside a shell script in ubuntu
how do i get rvm to be recognised in the terminal on my mac?
can i create my own bashrc file, something like ".xyzrc" and then import it from .bashrc?
how can i run the ssh-agent auto in the zsh environment?
ansible bash profile, prevent verbosity
explain this command: . ~/nvm/nvm.sh
convert a file path into string
linux command to extend the duration of audio files
linux command to extend the duration of audio files
generate visual (waveform) from mp3/wav file in windows 2008 server?
merging mp3s with espeak, cat and php
expect - spawn when double dashes are present
send: spawn id exp7 not open
application gets closed when terminal is closed, how to stop this?
expect tcl script - error passing quoted argument using spawn
tcl, expect: multiple files w/ scp
osx use a variable in expect script
script not logging to log file. why?
loading spec.opts when testing pure ruby program
unix: how to split a file into equal parts, without breaking individual lines?
using  to split files
how to split a file into smaller files (one file per line)  leftsquarebrc split doesn't work rightsquarebrc 
unix, split file into chunks of max n bytes, keeping complete lines
how to split file with a trick 
workaround for split 1000 file limit?
what is cat for and what is it doing here?
how to split one text file into multiple *.txt files?
using  to split files
how to split file with a trick 
changing the output filenames in  leftsquarebrc split rightsquarebrc 
split command and putting output to the specific pattern files
how to split text or csv file(100 thousand) into csv files ( each one contains 10k ) based on the lines count?
dividing a file into separate files with 10,000 lines each
splitting file based on quantity of lines, each part save to one file awk, bash
easy way to split a large text file?
how to split a large file into many small files using bash?
how to split file with a trick 
oracle version of the sql server "sqlcmd.exe" tool to deploy .sql scripts
shell scripting grant command is not working in mysql
shell scripting grant command is not working in mysql
how to pass parameters to sql script via powershell
how to pass parameters to sql script via powershell
making multiple sqlite3 calls in a shell script
escape single quote  variable
making multiple sqlite3 calls in a shell script
can not create dump file with following command in java
is there a  utility for validating sqlite databases ?
merge multiple sqlite databases using bash?
sqlite3 multiple arguments  script
sqlite3 command-line - how to show less/more output
running a sqlite3 script from 
running a sqlite3 script from 
can you write sql commands using a .bat file?
sqlite, bash script, and concatenate operator
bash list header of empty sqlite database
what is the proper quoting to assign an interpolated sqlite3 query to a variable ?
how to make stderr of os commands ran with "!" go to sql*plus spool?
how to make stderr of os commands ran with "!" go to sql*plus spool?
how to execute sqlplus commands on cmd.exe?
passing variable from bash shell to sql file to oracle table
how to pass variable from shell script to sqlplus
calling sql file from shell script with parameters
how to return just the values from sqlplus using set variables?
how to store result from sqlplus to a shell variable
how to store result from sqlplus to a shell variable
how to call a stored procedure in oracle from shell
how to use data pump (expdp and impdp) commands from oracle without tnsnames.ora file
connect to a db inside awk script
oracle version of the sql server "sqlcmd.exe" tool to deploy .sql scripts
how to use linux pipe for userdefined shell scripts
how to use linux pipe for userdefined shell scripts
unix command to strip off part of a line
copy values between variables  script
providing standard input to a fortran code running on a cluster running slurm
replace all periods with period and newline but avoid "mr./mrs." using sed
problems combining files using unix cat and zcat 
problems combining files using unix cat and zcat 
bash: how to cleanly log processed lines of ssh/ bash output?
bash: how to filter tee output in realtime for ssh command?
how to redirect output of echo over ssh to a file
call remote sh script from local sh file
how to create remote tar (bash)
how to pass variables to ssh command  script
mysql query inside ssh, inside bash, with arguments
ssh breaks out of while-loop 
shell script ssh behaviours
how to handle filename having double dollar
ssh and create a log file named as the machines name
auto ssh and execute script
messy bash variable
how to compare dates on different linux nodes
conflicting parameter names  script
shell script, for loop, ssh and alias
automating mkdir, chmod and scp across all the servers
linux expect expect_out(buffer) does contain nothing
pass url to a bash script for use in scp
capturing ssh output as variable  script
how to use a jumphost/jump server in a script
bash/perl chained ssh commands (a to b to c)
have ssh login session redirect to interactive telnet to localhost instead
open port 3306 via ssh
ssh error when executing a remote command: "stdin: is not a tty"
how to transfer a file in an "indirect" ssh connection?
knowing if a remote port forward was successful?
supply a string variable instead of a filepath as a  argument
setup and use ssh controlmaster session in a shell script
how to get files as they are added to a remote server
change ssh tunnel direction with the same port?
connect to the mysql database using phpseclib library
run script on two machines
can i run a bash script that is located on my local machine on a remote server?
executing command instead of setting as variable 
executing command instead of setting as variable 
save ssh -v to variable
save ssh -v to variable
save ssh -v to variable
save ssh -v to variable
c++ app hangs on exit when i envoke a script and leave the script running
bash eval inside quotes
lock ubuntu from shell script
fix ssh line for xpra bash script
what's wrong with my bash script?
how to start multi ssh connection in one bash script?
running process in backround using a bash script
change ssh tunnel direction with the same port?
change ssh tunnel direction with the same port?
how to ssh to a remote server behind multiple firewalls?
unix - supress informatory messages
connect to the mysql database using phpseclib library
os x run rsync under sudo using ssh_config
how to quickly check if a private rsa key still works for a bunch of servers ?
how to quickly check if a private rsa key still works for a bunch of servers ?
open ssh from heroku
open ssh from heroku
bash script: unable to move a file to another directory
single line telnet commands using terminal
shell script for remote ssh
ant, download fileset from remote machine
rsync to amazon ec2 instance
grep: can't open /data.cfg
command doesnt work properly when scheduled
writing a bash script to push local files to amazon ec2 and s3 - needs proper owner/permissions
executing scripts using more users
run 'cordova prepare ios' from different folder
bash execute java program on multiple remote machines
executing ssh command  script
why ssh breaks the control flow 
running a c program  script
running a c program  script
running a c program  script
running a c program  script
how to remotely edit a line containing double quotes and variables using sed across ssh?
in my bash loop over a list of some servers, if the ssh connects the bash script exits
run ssh  in parallel and set remote variables
loop broken by ssh running script aside
running a shell script on remote servers and passing a  argument to it
how to make ssh command execution to timeout
bash: check if i can ssh (with keys) to a list of hosts
testing remote access with ssh
ssh: don't prompt for password 
when i run a bash script that ssh's into a remote server and run a command like wget it saves on the source not the destination server?
write a shell script to ssh to a remote machine and execute commands
how to get files as they are added to a remote server
ssh connection refused wrong port
osx terminal.app ssh port
how to ssh to a remote server behind multiple firewalls?
ssh error when executing a remote command: "stdin: is not a tty"
mysql create database and user script
variables over ssh
awk script not behaving correctly when run over ssh
scripting sudo via ssh behaves strangely when reading from file
making an alias for ssh mysql login using endssh heredoc
how to write a script for connecting to mysql by tcp/ip over ssh?
ssh exited without connecting to server 
how can i loop through interactive ssh connections in the foreground?
how can i loop through interactive ssh connections in the foreground?
how can i loop through interactive ssh connections in the foreground?
bash - running remote script from local machine
access to mysql via ssh (tunneling is not permitted )
run ssh and immediately execute command
calling an interactive bash script over ssh
stair-stepping when using a pty (through ssh) and piping to more
ssh with command....plus the shell
load some alias just after ssh login
how do i start an interactive c shell via ssh with one command/alias/script
how to run a sql command within a bash script and save the output of that command to a variable
missing 'read' prompt  when using ssh?
new terminal with multiple commands executed
new terminal with multiple commands executed
bash script to ssh into a box and get me to a python shell
script to ssh to a machine and do scp
remote sudo, execute a command and write output in local terminal
alias definition of multiple commands after ssh
how can i ssh directly to a particular directory?
getting git to fully work in takecommand
reading stderr from within awk
reading stderr from within awk
linux tar command for remote machine
how to execute shell script on two servers
how to make sure commands in telnet is executed finished?
get checksum of files inside tar archive on remote host
extract a compressed directory using tar/bzip2 over ssh to local computer
fabric sudo as another user with root privileges
distributed uncompression of a file archive
bash with ssh and for i statement
invocation command using ssh getting failed?
how to write a multi-line shell script
how to find greater than value of column 4
bash - escaping ssh commands
bash variable inside quotes
how to escape the single quote character in a ssh / remote bash command?
getting git to fully work in takecommand
problem using git as a deployment tool by branch
how do i escape this ssh command correctly?
ssh host 'history | tail' produces no output
no output for ssh host "awk '{print $0}' /path/to/log.txt"
no output for ssh host "awk '{print $0}' /path/to/log.txt"
bash reading from file and parsing each line
error with -exec in find command
find files on remote machine
find files on remote machine
find files on remote machine
why executing a command with ssh works, but assigning it to a var doesn't work?
why executing a command with ssh works, but assigning it to a var doesn't work?
capturing ssh output as variable  script
shell script to ssh remote machines and print the output of the top command
shell script to ssh remote machines and print the output of the top command
how have both local and remote variable inside an ssh command
how have both local and remote variable inside an ssh command
how have both local and remote variable inside an ssh command
how have both local and remote variable inside an ssh command
linux command with scape character
shell script for remote ssh
problem passing bash output to a python script
copying files on mounted drive
how can i export a recursive directory & file listing to a text file  bash shell with an ssh command?
how can i export a recursive directory & file listing to a text file  bash shell with an ssh command?
bash && operator prevents backgrounding over ssh
bash && operator prevents backgrounding over ssh
using a variable in a bash command?
scp a folder to a remote system keeping the directory layout
using python to cat a file over ssh to a remote bash script
how to use bash $(awk) in single ssh-command?
how to use bash $(awk) in single ssh-command?
how to use bash $(awk) in single ssh-command?
is it possible to use variables in remote ssh command?
run sed remotely via ssh: probably quoting issue
a script to ssh into a remote folder and check all files?
getting git to fully work in takecommand
passing a script over ssh with arguments
no output from bash -c over ssh
bash script passing service reply to variable
how to run a bash function() in a remote host? in ubuntu
passing variables in remote ssh command
passing variables in remote ssh command
passing bash variables to ssh
run 'export' command over ssh
run 'export' command over ssh
run 'export' command over ssh
bash: check if remote file exists using scp
double quotes inside quotes 
double quotes inside quotes 
getting files using expect command in a shell script
run scripts remotely via ssh
how to properly escaping qsub command with long input args within ssh command?
piping the output of a custom ssh console
bash, variables and escaping symbols
bash, variables and escaping symbols
bash script to fetch log files from dev and production fails
script to shutdown ubuntu
kill remote process by ssh
how to execute a script on server from client side?
shell script grep rsa key from authorized_keys
execute bash script stored in a file over ssh
execute commands and store command output to variable
using bash redirection with input variables to script
log ssh script timestamp of execution to file on the server
bash: start remote python application through ssh and get its pid
linux systems remote info
ssh: send remote command to local background
ssh: send remote command to local background
ssh onto server and execute command to dump database
add a publickey to server for scp
escaping an exclamation mark in a ssh remote call to awk?
append content from one file to another 
append content from one file to another 
error when cassandra-cli command executed in ssh
any way to allow stdin in python over ssh with heredocs?
multiple remote ssh through bash scripting
copy bash profile from remote system up to a certain line number point
copy bash profile from remote system up to a certain line number point
escape awk command in ssh
how to copy data with sshpass between two remote machines?
how to execute a series of commands after logging in to a remote server over ssh?
how to execute a series of commands after logging in to a remote server over ssh?
remote script execution produce errors
problems using scala to remotely issue commands via ssh
how do i write a script to ssh to a computer from a remote computer?
new terminal with multiple commands executed
grunt shell create database
storing command output  "here document"
running full commands through remote ssh
remote ssh command, lf missing on stdout
remote ssh command, lf missing on stdout
shell script: run function from script over ssh
how to call ssh so it will only use identity file
bash: parallel command execution over ssh
how to emit a "beep" on my computer while running a script on a remote machine?
bash cat on the last created remote file
how can i scp a file and run an ssh command asking for password only once?
bash cat on the last created remote file
transfer files over ssh, then appended to another file
logging on a remote machine
how do you use ssh in a shell script?
ssh shell script multiple commands output
logging on a remote machine
how to check if a file exists on a server with bash
how do you use ssh in a shell script?
logging in via a script to a remote server and execute a set of commands
how can i checkout multiple svn repositories in one command?
linux : how to move a file from one folder to another folder in a remote machine without logging in
mysqldump with ssh connection 
ssh doesnt exit from 
running ssh remote command and grep for a string
bash remote command with sudo does not work
trouble running bash script remotely, redirecting output locally
trouble running bash script remotely, redirecting output locally
ssh remote command executing a script
execute local script on remote linux host
how to get telnet execution result code from shell script?
how can i untar multiple tar files over ssh?
touch -r with reference to another server
execute a list of unix commands using ssh
clear cache in remote server using ssh
how do i write a script to ssh to a computer from a remote computer?
call php script from bash from different machine
bash: using export inside ssh command
syncing folders using bash script without rsync
using rsync to delete a single file
inline bash time variable expansion
inline bash time variable expansion
how to connect to a remote server using ssh and getting the information
ssh login without welcome banner
error in executing command tar -xjf
variable is not being set properly
assign variable from ssh server to local machine variable
shell sftp download remote file
scp download multiple files from multiple directories
how do i iterate over a local array in a remote ssh bash command
how do i iterate over a local array in a remote ssh bash command
how to move directory via ssh?
server command-line automation (updating the project)
run command `at ` 5 seconds from now
run command `at ` 5 seconds from now
remote ssh and command execution using bash and expect
how to write a bash script to get the time on another linux server?
unix ssh without password
unix ssh without password
unix ssh without password
executing exe or bat file on remote windows machine from *nix
bash/perl chained ssh commands (a to b to c)
ssh command option with bash for loop
how do i rewrite this bash  into zsh?
how to ssh into multiple servers from bash shell and provide full logins?
bash shell script: how do i exit and restart the script?
iptables bad argument `accept' in a bash function
password hiding 
git-upload-pack: command not found
how to scp a file from local to remote from within remote connection terminal
linux distribute big file and gather results
linux distribute big file and gather results
scp folder that does not exist in remote
want to read variable value from remote file
ssh - entering a passphrase only once
how to execute git commands from bash script?
keychain for ssh-add
specify private ssh-key to use when executing shell command with or without ruby?
provide password using shell script
ant, download fileset from remote machine
uri save password inside the link
add a publickey to server for scp
uri save password inside the link
complete password field scp command on linux
non-interactive password ssh in java
writing an rsync shell script on mac to continuously sync local directory with remote web server
how to trigger remote bash script
bash: is it possible to generate a passphrase-less rsa key using a bash script?
ant, download fileset from remote machine
how to change the owner for a rsync
bash script to push/pull from private git repository?
add a publickey to server for scp
scp documents from server from inside bash script
bash script for generating ssh keys
git on godaddy - git-upload-pack not found
how to pass ruby variable into sed command ?
how to pass ruby variable into sed command ?
how to pass ruby variable into sed command ?
remove git username form git bash
bash check if user mount fails
how to print progress from this code as the subprocess is running?
how to print progress from this code as the subprocess is running?
how to copy data with sshpass between two remote machines?
shell function issue - remove the single quote from shell statement
how to execute bash script after rsync
looping through lines in csv file with bash
looping through lines in csv file with bash
is it possible to automatically input value to the terminal when using an ssh connection?
is it possible to automatically input value to the terminal when using an ssh connection?
entering password in su- through loop
getting "permission denied" error while cloning a repository using ssh?
enter password through bourne shell script when asked by the command without expect
how do i pass a variable from my local server to a remote server?
passing variable into sshpass command inside a script for loop
passing variable into sshpass command inside a script for loop
detect file read/write from running a script
running command in background using cygwin from windows cmd
how to open a pdf in fullscreen view via 
how to start a gui app from the  in the background?
how can i stop matlab from returning until after a command-line script completes?
batch start command not opening program
when we exit command prompt when npm start is still running (node.js), will the process end and the server stop?
prevent console return
windows: wait for process to finish
how can i stop matlab from returning until after a command-line script completes?
bat file - not finding .exe
bat file: open new cmd window and enter code in there
output redirection in batch while using start command
bat file: open new cmd window and enter code in there
how to open a url with get query params using the  in windows
getting the file name without extension in a windows batch script
when we exit command prompt when npm start is still running (node.js), will the process end and the server stop?
how to detect when networking initialized in /etc/init.d script?
running monit as a restricted user and making it watch a process that needs root privileges
cmd script: how to close the cmd
start-stop-daemon error
running batch file containing nuget commands from c#
how concatenate strings that are pathed to a function ?
how concatenate strings that are pathed to a function ?
get ssh remote command to terminate so that xargs with parallel option can continue
batch script- passing a delimited string
how can i do getruntime().exec with asterisk?
"command not found" (simple bash script)
find files between 2 dates
stat with find not excluding files
bash script, output folder content and bytesize without using ls
last modified date of a directory in osx
convert file permissions 
shell code to print file names and their sizes
last modified date of a directory in osx
checking file owner permissions
checking file owner permissions
how to get the date on a directory entry using "ls" and not on the whole directory contents?
bash: how can i subtract two time strings using bash?
bash - get mtime of specific file?
grep lines for numbers greater than given number
grep lines for numbers greater than given number
grep lines for numbers greater than given number
how to force current directory permissions on all sub-directories ?
finding files that are *not* hard links via a shell script
determine when a video has completed buffering
serve an http response including an image, with netcat
extract a specific word 
linux shell file size
displaying last modification date
nested for loop issue will not move to next file
how to get the date on a directory entry using "ls" and not on the whole directory contents?
how to find files with same size?
bash problem to fill a file 'til a determined size
is it possible to find files by the exact date then execute tar command on the results files?
formatted modified date/time on mac bash?
last modified date of a directory in osx
comparing files on the unix 
how to get image size in bytes in osx terminal/bash for apple transporter file?
how can i use read timeouts with stat?
winscp timestamp retrieval from /scripting
how can i do getruntime().exec with asterisk?
replacing a path with sed
gnuplot : plotting graph with a base offset
exit from a function in child shell script to parent shell script
call a matlab function from c++
why does less change order of output?
how do you print chunked output with curl?
use i/o redirection between two scripts without waiting for the first to finish
convert hex to binary and send it over network
bash capture output of running script
altering a continuuous stream of ascii data (amending it with time, for example)
automatically cancel binary execution when certain output is detected
automatically cancel binary execution when certain output is detected
bash command to grep something on stderr and save the result in a file
bash command to grep something on stderr and save the result in a file
can not retrieve hash reference in perl
can not retrieve hash reference in perl
passing a comma (,) into the 
how to get all of the processes' names of a shell script?
kill process on first (and any) output
what start up scripts are executed when a terminal(shell) is opened in ubuntu
redirecting multiple stdouts
detect file read/write from running a script
number of forks a shell script performs during execution
detect file read/write from running a script
how to count number of forked (sub-?)processes
how does "(head; tail)  leftanglebrc  file" work?
redirecting the output of a child process
bash command arguments
c program calling shell script
unix at command pass variable to shell script?
benchmark a linux bash script
how can i pass multiple file names with spaces to a command via strace?
 (ubuntu), how do i determine which specific file was not found when i see "no such file or directory"
find is returning "find: .: permission denied", but i am not searching in 
how do you open sourcetree from the ?
string format in c# running 
c# loading a file from a ?
why does this bash/sed call work?
string replace this shell variable?
"grep" offset of ascii string from binary file
"grep" offset of ascii string from binary file
how to remove the row that has special characters in it
how to write shell script for finding number of pages in pdf?
connect multiple commands via pipe in a shell variable
running a shell command that is quoted
bash, serial i/o and arduino
set stty parameters
rs232 console communication - set baudrate to 1 mbaud
find specific data from command output using awk 
find specific data from command output using awk 
 leftsquarebrc ctrl-c rightsquarebrc ==sigint.  leftsquarebrc ctrl-x rightsquarebrc ==?
what does "stty raw -echo" do on os x
can you portably read sensitive input from the commandline?
ctrl-c being inserted into 
unable to forward search bash history similarly as with ctrl-r
disable flow control in .bashrc for vim mapping
why do i get "suspended (tty output)" in one terminal but not in others?
what does "stty raw -echo" do on os x
how can find what ^? and ^/ correspond to on a keyboard ?
bash vi mode - bind "c-c" to escape from insert mode
behaviour of "trap" not as expected - after "trap" strange terminal input and no echo
what makes ctrl+q work in zsh
what is your single most favorite command-line trick using bash?
how can i configure the "delete" key to delete a word in c shell
is there a command called 'screen_it' in ubuntu?
python2.7 on centos for non root user
how to execute a shellscript from java from a specific user
bash: get pid of a process using a diferent user
executing python script in background in init.d
execute a command as another user and get the pid for that process
postgresql - create user and database from shell failing
how to write command ?
how to write command ?
creating a bash alias to su to a new user and source a script
why does "su - -c" make this fail?
why does "su - -c" make this fail?
awk instead of sed is not working (slow, laggy and wrong output)
shell script to set environment variables
su -c in a bash script won't show any output
su -c in a bash script won't show any output
creating a bash alias to su to a new user and source a script
launching tomcat
bash script to test if a given user can read a directory and all files inside?
creating a bash alias to su to a new user and source a script
creating new bash session with different user in the same window
can't output result  from an ant command
switch user and output variable contents
why this bash script can't get the pid of the background process by $!
how to use two different users  scripting
bash init script - ambiguous redirect
problem with jboss  rightanglebrc  5 in ubuntu server service script
cannot execute binary file error
run a bash script on startup, before login as a user
how to escape apostrophe in a db2 sql query, running within a shell script?
bash command in perl script
can i run 'su' in the middle of a bash script?
a bash script to change postgresql user password
how to list databases owned by rolename in postgresql
how to run shell script command with double quotes in the argument?
shell script running commands creates more than one processes
rsync pop_dir "/home/user_x" failed: permission denied, why?
su command 
missing file operand cp after su
missing file operand cp after su
how to define environment variable in input command of su
suppress vagrant shell provisioning output
in the shell, what is “ 2 rightanglebrc &1 &”?
extract name of a subdirectory from a path
give webservice access to windows service
possible to use output of one command as an argument for an alias?
how to open modified in git file for edit in sublime
how to read a value in a txt document using bash script on ubuntu?
echoing a command, then running it - fails on piped commands?
what does echo - - - mean  command?
what is sudo bang bang?
repeat last command with "sudo"
npm install failing
how can i get iterm to use the newer version of bash that brew shows? change a user's shell on osx
when running shell script with sudo, user path is not available
npm install failing
custom env vars with rvmsudo
unable to execute sudo -s
how to use tee with sshpass 
nohup'ing a sudo command - doesn't seem to work
using sudo with for loop
when running shell script with sudo, user path is not available
change dir after 'sudo -i', in one command
ubuntu: exit sudo after a bash command?
sudo for single command  script
switch user without prompting for a password 
syntax error near unexpected token `('
syntax error near unexpected token `('
permission denied when trying to change permissions on ssh
execute single command  without sudo
bash script on osx that switches between root and user
bash script on osx that switches between root and user
run a command without privileges in a root shell
run a command without privileges in a root shell
running shell script on low privileged user
shell script to start game servers in screen
syntax error near unexpected token `('
what environment variables available while starting the script using init.d boot process
ssh command to run remote script exist shell on remote server when switching user
a bash script to change postgresql user password
why doesn't my bash script allow me to enter the python shell?
su command 
execute shell script without sudo password
how to execute a command on behalf of a user if login is denied
change user in sudo bash script
run set of commands as sudo 
bash script to create folder for user at login and set access permissions
how to first login using sudo and then run rest of unix shell script
bash script command to inject a schema.sql into mysql db
how to first login using sudo and then run rest of unix shell script
how do i use su to execute the rest of the bash script as that user?
apache user account passwordless access to the server - ubuntu
apache user account passwordless access to the server - ubuntu
double-click shell script issues (.command on mac)
applying sudo to some commands in script
how do you automate the installation of eclipse plugins with ?
having trouble running android sdk tool on ubuntu 12.10
shell script suddently stopped working
how to script folder deletion on mac
how to keep refreshing screen with continuous text
files generated from shellscript can't be opened, permissions only show "???????"
comparing variable to ints with if/fi  script
running ssh remote command and grep for a string
executing a bash script upon file creation
how to give sudo access to a bash script?
use "logger" to log into seperate logfile
how to get output of dmidecode and fdisk commands as normal user?
what is the best way to run shell script (with root privilege) via php?
restarting apache without being superuser
how to run the script as root in jenkins?
ldconfig - ld_library_path is not a known library type
error using tcpdump in a  list of commands
autoinstall libpam-ldap
how can i store any output from node program to a specific file?
error installing npm for node.js
how can i append text to /etc/apt/sources.list from the ?
print character after each line in terminal
error while installing jitterbit client installation
how can know ssh is disconected and retry with bash script
suppress syntax error or warning _completion every time new terminal is opened?
sound notification in ubuntu terminal
bash syntax error: unexpected end of file
script to get info from multiple servers
error while using make to compile glibc-2.11.1  from scratch
installing oracle database 10g, .oui not found
linux shell doesn't execute my c program
executing a bash script upon file creation
is there a way to make the taskbar blink from the terminal?
how can i upgrade lxml for python2.6
can't find/install libxtst.so.6?
what version of mongodb is installed on ubuntu
creating ftp user via php
replicating scp command  ?
installing vtk for python
netcat drops incoming packets
how to zip a file using cmd line?
suppress syntax error or warning _completion every time new terminal is opened?
remove a file from usr/include?
how can i upgrade lxml for python2.6
linux from scratch, glibc-2.16 make error
compile vim with +farsi to have farsi mapping
embed a executable binary in a shell script
firefox refresh current tab from command-line
running delayed command with sudo
running delayed command with sudo
rescheduling an at job
see what process last touched a file
why can't i echo contents into a new file as sudo?
cron job terminates early
osx shell script - deleting all desktop files
shell script suddently stopped working
bash double bracket issue
sudo a bash script in profile.d
sed and mac os x differences with to upper, to lower and whole capture control sequences
awk does not read from pipe
unix command to search for text string in all files
installed django with pip, django.admin.py returns command not found. what am i doing wrong?
crontab that executes shell script every minute
permission denied when trying to change permissions on ssh
transferring a file to an amazon ec2 instance using scp always gives me permission denied (publickey,gssapi-with-mic)
command not found -3.2$
how to execute complex linux commands in qt?
heroku and adding ssh keys (trouble installing heroku gem
zsh compinit: insecure directories
$path issues with rvm and ruby
permission denied when trying to change permissions on ssh
how to create in all subfolders of a given directory subfolder with given name
how to uninstall bash_it?
run shell command and send output to file?
use sudo to change file in root directory
how to execute shell scripts from 32-bit wine on 64-bit linux?
how to execute shell scripts from 32-bit wine on 64-bit linux?
worth switching to zsh for casual use?
how to copy a .sh file to 'bin/sh/'
how to run a command without sudo?
glassfish dies and does not start again
remove diamond question marks from binary file on bash
ubuntu 11.10 + bash + python error + invalid python installation
problem with cyrillic symbols in console
how can i get iterm to use the newer version of bash that brew shows? change a user's shell on osx
dtrace script never reports write syscalls
a script that deletes all tables in hbase
error installing virtualenv on mac os 10.6
how should my users install a python  app for mac?
generating a bash script with echo, problem with shebang line
how to execute commands requiring root privileges inside a script?
why can't i echo contents into a new file as sudo?
use sudo to change file in root directory
use sudo to change file in root directory
can't redirect output to /var/lib/varlibfile, but i can copy a varlibfile to /var/lib
when running shell script with sudo, user path is not available
echo a command to a file with linebreaks
what accounts for increase in time to execute -type f in find
interpreting rsync command
linux: find images greater than 500x500 then move to some folder (find+xargs+mv)
how to create in all subfolders of a given directory subfolder with given name
optimizing a one-line find + exec command
, find all files that end with a certain extension and delete the parent folders and all its contents
rbenv and two versions of the heroku client
find string within hidden file on os x
how to create in all subfolders of a given directory subfolder with given name
how to remove a group of same extension files in different folders
osx - can't compress database files in backup script - permission dennied
stop script from modifying hosts file
recieve and reply to sms on huawei modem, gammu-smsd: process failed with exit status 2
install ruby gem globally from github repository
glassfish stops when i close putty window
how can i return the entire contents of a split line based on a search?
apple installer command help  script
escaping special characters 
installing jython on ubuntu
how to solve permission when running bash command from java
find and kill pid using port in one line
automate killing of matching processes with bash
kill a process if it exists
how can i make a bash script that sudo's all by itself in os x on a standard account, assuming i know the root password?
i'm trying to setup showoff.io or localtunnel on a mac, but i'm stuck
how do i set up my gcc again
sublime text 2 os x 
trying to connect terminal to recognize "mate" command for textmate
problems with compiling apache2 on mac os x mountain lion
python installation mess on mac os x, cannot run python
python installation mess on mac os x, cannot run python
build system with bash script for sublime text 2
unable to run lessc on ubuntu 13.04. not even a "command not found"
making symlink with pypy intalled via brew
installing jython on ubuntu
installed django with pip, django.admin.py returns command not found. what am i doing wrong?
node.js not found
running a python script like a built- command
hello world on ruby and rails (ror)
create .deb package from revision tag for a git url
effective user id does not change after making the file owned by root
how to check for usb device with if statement 
compiling mpi/vtk hello world
bash localizing
macports? where did it go?
create database using sudo mysql -u=root
use sudo to change file in root directory
how to set up a proxy via bash shell?
how can i install the grunt-cli without getting errors?
npm no longer working
stop script from modifying hosts file
bash for loop not working as expected
unix special case sensitive utf-8 sort
how to fix sed inplace replacement mac os and ubuntu issue
using sed on a string that contains reg expressions
how do you set user work as root , when the bash script runs via java code
custom tab completion in python argparse
compiling statsmodels example in ubuntu 12.04
strange behavior while terminating a python process
segmentation fault 11, zcat pipe into postgresql 9.0.5 (lion) 
how do i write to a file and print to a terminal concurrently ?
strtonum in os x, not found
cannot configure quilt on mac for csipsimple
sed -n '2~4p' yielding invalid code
unable to have macports' tab completion in zsh
install check script that checks profiles -p for a specific profile
creating ftp user via php
save programm output to file and include the actual time and date in the filename
how do i remove a single-symbol junk "file" in ubuntu?
bash script corrupting my path
perl-oneliner to bash
bash script corrupting my path
pip is not uninstalling packages
regex doesnt match the file path 
sublime text 2 os x 
multiple ssh commands while in a bash script
rsync, incremental file list output but no actual copying
how can i non-recursively migrate directories with perl or shell?
how to delete a password from keychain with a shell command?
regex pattern to edit /etc/sudoers file
escape unix character
how to use bash to find a line given a pattern to comment out
sed treating filename as pattern?
find and replace using a sh file
ignoring slashes in sed find and replace command
find and replace using a sh file
find and replace using a sh file
pipe grep search result into sed replace
difference between 'sed -i' and 'sed ...  rightanglebrc  file'
using a variable with a dollar sign in it 
difference between 'sed -i' and 'sed ...  rightanglebrc  file'
trying to escape a / for sed on ubuntu
apply directory permissions to all new subdirectories 
getting error 1054 (42s22) while i am executing the mysql command in the terminal
why is this bash variable empty when i just set it?
vagrant supressing non-zero exit staus for shell provisioner
hardcode superuser password into bash script
why does shell redirection fail when using echo/sudo?
disable all but one core via bash command
use sudo to change file in root directory
can't redirect output to /var/lib/varlibfile, but i can copy a varlibfile to /var/lib
syntax error near unexpected token `do' when run with sudo
enter password for a sudo command in a chain of commands
shell script suddently stopped working
how to first login using sudo and then run rest of unix shell script
bash double bracket issue
nested quotes bash
bash: how to make a substitution in a "live" pipe?
python2.7 on centos for non root user
bash: syntax error near unexpected token `('
multiple ssh commands while in a bash script
crontab not working under arch linux
create a .tar.bz2 file linux
create a .tar.bz2 file linux
tar archiving via cron does not work
how do you automate the installation of eclipse plugins with ?
netcat drops incoming packets
how to terminate a process which is run with sudo? ctrl+c do it, but not kill
piping the output of tcpdump multiple times
netcat drops incoming packets
permission denied when trying to change permissions on ssh
raspberrypi shutdown script
unmount all samba file systems
bash script - change to root then exit root
unzip and move a downloaded file - linux
rename multiple files from 
bach linux file rename - how to rename multiple files  console
how locate command works
how to become a jenkins user?
use sudo to change file in root directory
how to run a shell script as root user?
writing bash script for x-11 forwarding
installation prompt through shell script
bash - make command not found
error: command 'gcc' failed with exit status 1 on centos
install mongodb on a virtual machine running centos linux in windows azure
pythonbrew install zsh on ubuntu
bash run function with different user
the git user is unable to execute bundle during gitlab installation
var+= adds string instead of sum
java.lang.nullpointerexception when adding two numbers
var+= adds string instead of sum
my bash script works improperly
maths on multiple fields on seperate lines using awk
how to restart background php process? (how to get pid)
how to restart background php process? (how to get pid)
custom shell script to kill uwsgi by pid
cli patterns/antipatterns for usability
using svn from a unix shell doesn't recognise vars
command to see previous code using svn
view content of deleted file svn
svn: is there a way to mark a file as "do not commit"?
display output of a bash command and keeping the output in a variable
svn export to checkout
how to update code using svn with crontab?
svn export changes and save locally
how to do automatic updates of a python/bash script?
what these svn s do in detail?
does deleting 'm'odified line in svn commit have an effect
how do i checkin to local copy and svn:externals subdirectories in one commit?
using wget to "checkout" svn repository
idiots guide to moving a directory up in svn
providing an alias with a arguement without it evaluating to two strings
what these svn s do in detail?
how to do automatic updates of a python/bash script?
bash script credentials for subversion
concise  for subversion copy (branch)
concise  for subversion copy (branch)
svn diff to output all lines from files
how to parse svn diff results?
piping subversion revision numbers to diff
list svn diffs for all files in specific revison
using diffstat with subversion?
exclude directories from  output
how to export only last changes from svn repository?
svn export changes and save locally
svn export changes and save locally
svn export changes and save locally
svn export changes and save locally
cli patterns/antipatterns for usability
how do i explicitly set an svn password when checking out a repository from the 
svn  question
creating subversion shell script on centos
trouble adding an integer to an array element 
get svn revision number of folder in repository
how can i get a end of word from this line
get last file commit date from svn
using bash to get revision number from subversion
is there a command which will print the path of the file in the repo-browser in the ?
how to get actual revision number from the svn server by svn cli?
bash text parsing golf
parse the output of command in a shell script and store the result in a variable
parse the output of command in a shell script and store the result in a variable
parse the output of command in a shell script and store the result in a variable
reading svn commit messages from the console
batch file to get and store the svn log in local directory
check the last commit message in subversion
svn - get all commit messages for a file?
check the last commit message in subversion
how to display a specific user's commits in svn log?
how to list svn tags and its revisions from 
detecting failure of a bash "export" value
check that an svn repository url does not exist
svn tag version number increment from the 
check that an svn repository url does not exist
adding a tab character before external script output
what these svn s do in detail?
move filename with ()s using svn
how do i view all ignored patterns set with svn:ignore recursively in an svn repository?
svn propedit in a noninteractive script
bash variables to svn commit
execute shell command with variable with spaces
svn resolve multiple files using bash/terminal on os x
does svn have a `revert-all` command?
svn: how to resurrect non-committed directory and files?
unix command to strip off part of a line
how to express "map a linux command to each line in a file"?
how to express "map a linux command to each line in a file"?
how to loop files  from svn status
revert svn files by file pattern
using perl instead of grep
best way to complete this perl regex one-liner
structured output between linux commands
don't call xargs if the previous command doesn't return anything
using xargs twice in one line for to fix subversion «!» status
does svn have a `revert-all` command?
write python script to run the shell script?
save me from my svn self
copying/diffing unversioned svn files via bash
copying/diffing unversioned svn files via bash
auto-add svn  with whitespace
linux shell stream redirection to run a list of commands directly
set svn:ignore recursively for a directory structure
how can i remove missing files with spaces in svn?
xargs command on cygwin is mangling file paths
using wget to "checkout" svn repository
using wget to "checkout" svn repository
subversion update all working copies under common parent directory
how to do automatic updates of a python/bash script?
svn permission issue - txn-current-lock: permission denied
get the highest revision number from a subversion dump file in perl or shell
piping data on windows command prompt
svn post-commit execute (if message ~revision.blah)
subversion - make a copy of the entire repository
is there a gitx equivalent for subversion that allows command-line execution?
using windows commandline, how can i completely replace one folder with another?
grep - put part of string into variable
how to compile swi-prolog from linux terminal along with query command?
how do i show the results of pattern-matching goals in swi-prolog from a shell invocation?
swi prolog interpret/compile from 
a problem with folding bash functions in vim
is there harm in calling reboot from a sh file running under su from an android app?
shell script to set screen resolution values in a file
script to redirect the output to a file not working with cron
write to mac os x console logs from the 
first program  pipeline is blocking
#/bin/sh in one line
how can i process a perl array element in a shell script?
string::shellquote: when do i need `shell_quote`?
string::shellquote: when do i need `shell_quote`?
run linux commands "from" the 'rails_root/config/environments/production.rb' file
calling shell command from ruby with proper argument escaping
#/bin/sh in one line
output from ruby command is not shown in stdout
execute shell command from within mysql client?
how can i dynamically assign filename with -w option in tcpdump.sh on freebsd?
ruby-double quotes are missing when running shell script
shell execute from ruby
rescue ruby command 
forming sanitary shell commands or system calls in ruby
run a windows batch file through wine using ruby on rails 
run a shell command through perl in a specific terminal
mac osx get usb vendor id and product id
generate json using dynamic variable 
grep after grep - osx shell script
"service asterisk start" on fedora 17
"service asterisk start" on fedora 17
custom shell script to kill uwsgi by pid
"service asterisk start" on fedora 17
"service asterisk start" on fedora 17
monster perl regex
shell bash-to to sed with a string that includes "
sed string replacement containing special characters
variable substitution in psql \copy
change file extensions of multiple files in a directory with terminal/bash?
change file extensions of multiple files in a directory with terminal/bash?
get the highest revision number from a subversion dump file in perl or shell
sed: return last occurrence match until end of file
make grep stop after first non-matching line
get sentences in reverse order 
replace the last occurance of a string in a file
search a string between two timestamps starting from bottom of log file
bash: how to use sed to replace only the last occurence in a file?
sed replace last line matching pattern
sed replace last line matching pattern
which is the simple and fast unix command to print all lines from the last occurrence of a pattern?
get the nth line from the bottom "safely"
keep only the line that is latest in the file and is a duplicate based on two fields
sed command returns expression error
awk a huge logfile from behind until timestamp
wrap placemark tags with folder tags in kml file
unix command for reversing lines in file and storing it in another file
get specific lines from a repeated range pattern in a text file
delete all lines after a string but the last few
bash: only display lines after a certain time in a file with timestamps
eliminate duplicate lines and keep the last one
osx mavericks add tags programmatically
grep -f using -i option
grep -f using -i option
circular shifts on strings 
how to restart a process after it died
tail pipe to grep pipe to another grep seems to be a pipe too far
tail pipe to grep pipe to another grep seems to be a pipe too far
remove first line of text
how to copy new entry or new line of a growing log file ?
get the newest file based on timestamp
bash: checking for exit status of multi-pipe command chain
bash store values in an array and check difference of each value
regarding unix grep command
how to input tail -1 into sh script var
how to input tail -1 into sh script var
unix variable declaration
print last 10 rows of specific columns using awk
echo starts a sub-shell in a parallel process?
sass --watch process is locking up my terminal window
line too long on vi. commands alternatives to navigate last lines of a file
parse players currently in lobby
parse players currently in lobby
awk date to epoch
awk date to epoch
command substitution , when the command itself has a quote
-bash:  leftsquarebrc : @: binary operator expected
how to take a specific part of a line in a file using shell commands?
how to fetch these error/mismatch strings based on time intervals
problem with bash output redirection
problem with bash output redirection
how to search a multi-line pattern in a text and get the last occurrence?
grab numbers from file and add together
bash- how to read only the last line but one from a file?
copy last few lines of file to clipboard
how to restart a process after it died
shift bytes of file 
how to get only the first ten bytes of a binary file
using cut into a shell script with variables
linux command (like cat) to read a specified quantity of characters
problems trying to 'tail' latest log files
problems trying to 'tail' latest log files
enter last directory in path and tail last file in directory
sass --watch process is locking up my terminal window
displaying a log's add speed
displaying a log's add speed
backticked argument seems to interpreted twice?
keep a file open forever within a bash script
getting awk to filter endless pipes
bash - how can i make the log file accessable via tcp port when-ever requires?
can i connect bash to an existing mongod process?
tail to awk pipe do not append if exists in file
creating a new terminal/shell window to simply display text
tail not providing output  script
how can a view a live logfile with terminal?
bash standard output can not be redirected into file
what should a longtime windows user know when starting to use linux?
log parsing with sed or grep
kill a bash process when a specific string is read from stdout
tail -f into grep into cut not working properly
php debuging printing into 
bash tail on a live log file, counting uniq lines with same date/time
bash tail on a live log file, counting uniq lines with same date/time
bash tail on a live log file, counting uniq lines with same date/time
can you pass stdin into unix host/dig command?
tail -f doesn't give single lines when piped through grep
tail -f doesn't give single lines when piped through grep
piping tail output though grep twice
shell: how to make tail of a file running in background
how do i get grep to keep the file/pipe open?
have bash script execute multiple programs as separate processes
how to print the latest appended content of a text file?
awk - problem while printing matching line
how to 'grep' a continuous stream
grepping dynamic patterns to different files on unix
bash pipe and printing with multiple filter
copy modified content to new file 
bash script log file display to screen continuously
playing sound in putty during tail option
playing sound in putty during tail option
handling a special case during tail -f logging
awk strftime to return timest
bash script to tail -f with colored lines
bash script to tail -f with colored lines
bash script to tail -f with colored lines
tail and grep combo to show text in a multi line pattern
tail -f into grep into cut not working properly
how do i add indentation to bash tail?
how to read and extract information from a file that is being continuously updated?
tail only first few character of a line
"printf" testing in rails
continually output file content to console?
how to redirect(pipe) a log file to console?
what is a unix command for deleting the first n characters of a line?
how do you pipe input through grep to another utility?
monitor the rate of log file writes matching a pattern
why `read -t` is not timing out  on rhel?
filter out few lines from tail -f of the file
how to share the screen output of a running process?
program input from 2 sources?
tailing log file and only showing a specific value
clear screen when the file is truncated while using `tail -f`
grep output with multiple colors?
how to make tail display only the lines that have a specific text?
how to get device log in ios simulator using bash cmd
how to read a dynamically changing file
display content of all files with their filenames with cat
grep whole file and tail it without using "line-buffered" option in grep
shell script re-directing output with tee command buffers output in some cases and not in others
pipe tail output into another script
processing log files using bash tools
omit lines from the beginning or end of a file 
reading production.log files from a few days ago
check occurrance of word after a particular number of lines
how can i remove the first line of a text file using bash/sed script?
reading millions of files (in a certain order) and putting them into one big file --- fast
bash shell scripting file parsing  leftsquarebrc newbie rightsquarebrc 
how to use grep/other commands  for stripping head and tail records from a text file
unix shell: how to get the last lines of a file except the first 20?
how to delete first two lines and last four lines from a text file with bash?
quickly remove first n lines from many text files
shell script cut the beginning and the end of a file
bash: capture the remaining lines after a fixed amount of lines
sed: how to remove every 10 lines in a file (thin or subsample the file)
how to avoid the display of the 2 first line from a linux command output?
deleting the first two lines of a file using bash or awk or sed or whatever
copying part of a large file using 
copying part of a large file using 
how to tell shell command tail not to wait for parameter
how to pick specific words from script and create a new one with them withouth spaces
using sed to get the last n lines of a huge text file
file regex expansion 
any way to use tail to get the value before the last (or other values without knowing the total number of lines)
file regex expansion 
bash command to copy specific lines from a file
how to use wildcards to get some files and not others if the difference is in the middle of the name?
bash command to copy specific lines from a file
extract a column from many files and paste together in a single file
extract a column from many files and paste together in a single file
copy last line from multiple files into a single file
execute a command in the re-verse order of ids present in a file
execute a command in the re-verse order of ids present in a file
how can i reverse the order of lines in a file?
how to ignore all lines before a match occurs ?
what's an easy way to trim n lines from the tail of a file (without the use of 'head')?
how to tar last few lines
printing the last column of a line in a file
how do i add indentation to bash tail?
how to get the selected string from my log file using cut
extracting a word from the middle of a sentence
kde: klipper action script
how to tail all the log files inside a folder and subfolders?
how to tail all the log files inside a folder and subfolders?
how can i split a string into two with posix sh?
shell scripts with conditional echos
split file to specific sizes with tar command
split file to specific sizes with tar command
how do you tar an svn directory and filter out all the .svn files?
tar exclude single files/directories, not patterns
shell command to tar directory excluding certain files/folders
extract a selected file from a .tbz file
is there a trick to show detail description of specific command option 
adding --ignore-failed-read to tar causes "unknown function modifier" error
is tar ignoring --after-date option?
to preserve hard and symbolic link, permissions while creating tar ball and doing same while untar the tarball
how do i untar a subdirectory into the current directory?
how to rename files you put into a tar archive using linux 'tar'
how to rename files you put into a tar archive using linux 'tar'
adding --ignore-failed-read to tar causes "unknown function modifier" error
groups of commands 
groups of commands 
tar command - compress without folders
any way to execute a piped command in python using subprocess module, without using shell=true?
any way to execute a piped command in python using subprocess module, without using shell=true?
why does my shell script create a file named pipe?
parallel tar with split for large folders
how to use "xargs" properly when argument list is too long
untar contents to same directory
tar a folder into multiple files over ssh
create a single tar file for multiple directories by excluding its parent folders
create a single tar file for multiple directories by excluding its parent folders
short/long options with option argument - is this some sort of convention?
recursive find some 'foo' and tar
how to find and compress multiple directories with files to one archive?
how can i build a tar from stdin?
tar --excludes option to exclude only the directory at current working directory, not subdirectories
bash shell script to glob files in several directories, add to an archive and remove original file
linux tar command: compressing a directory but exluding subdirectories
linux tar command: compressing a directory but exluding subdirectories
destination directory while compressing using tar
setting file permissions on contents of tarfile
unix running tar command
tar exclude and include inclusive
how to create tar file with only certain extensions but omitting server generated files with similar extension?
how to suppress directory names in tar archived files?
unix command to create a tar of a specified number of files
how to have a shell script that unpacks several files when executed?
create a tar file in a subdirectory of the directory to be archived
create a tar file in a subdirectory of the directory to be archived
tar/tar.bz2 a file from a different directory
bash script to tar specific files in a directory
prevent parent directories from being tarred
why does my shell script create a file named pipe?
tar a directory but don't store full absolute paths in the archive
backup file folder in correct way
backup file folder in correct way
on linux, how do i recursively copy files while ignoring certain names?
how do bash scripts expand file globs?
-bash: /bin/tar: argument list too long when compressing many files with tar
bash backup script. need help finding a file and reading it
bash script: tar not working properly
tar: create archive exclude directories except one
tar: create archive exclude directories except one
tar command: what is dash for?
how to create tar file in date wise folder linux
how to create tar file in date wise folder linux
how to tar from different locations and untar on same locations in java?
create a single tar file for multiple directories by excluding its parent folders
ordering files inside tar created from bash
ordering files inside tar created from bash
ordering files inside tar created from bash
.tar vs .tgz...what is the difference?
how to use tar with lz4?
how to use tar with lz4?
tar command file extension path expansion
how to tar with a prefix directory
utilizing multi core for tar+gzip/bzip compression/decompression
utilizing multi core for tar+gzip/bzip compression/decompression
how is it safe to move a program to the background with ctrl-z and bg?
tarballing without git metadata
excluding some folders in tar command not work
what is the general syntax of a unix shell command?
short/long options with option argument - is this some sort of convention?
using tar to compress log directory, what happens when apache tries to write during compression?
create an archive file  within debian without installing software
how to send a compressed archive that contains executables so that google's attachment filter won't reject it
how to send a compressed archive that contains executables so that google's attachment filter won't reject it
unix tar: do not preserve directory structure
tar very large files to ftp directly splited into smaller files
create tar with same name as file but in different folder
create tar with same name as file but in different folder
is it possible to take a large number of files & tar/gzip and stream them on-the-fly?
is it possible to take a large number of files & tar/gzip and stream them on-the-fly?
directory when creating a .tar.gz file includes home and public html folders
directory when creating a .tar.gz file includes home and public html folders
script for archiving log files
backup all web files from vps
moving a directory tree with only some of the files
push branch tarball to github with git
how to convert this two steps command in a single one using zsh/bash script?
gzip: stdout: file too large when running customized backup script
compress a dictionary with shell script
archive old files to different files
sort by function using bash/coreutils instead of perl
gzipping up a set of directories and creating a tar compressed file
gzipping up a set of directories and creating a tar compressed file
gzipping up a set of directories and creating a tar compressed file
list and remove directories in an archive
create and read tar.bz2 files in perl
.tar vs .tgz...what is the difference?
make output of command appear on single line
how to include files of particular format while tarring a folder
excluding directory when creating a .tar.gz file
tar multiple files and folders, and specify archive structure
how to extract a single file from a tar site backup
bash seek file name inside tar ball
`tar` slow  performance through `xargs`
how to create tar file with only certain extensions but omitting server generated files with similar extension?
how to extract a compressed directory to a specific filename?
unzip a single file in a tbz archive
how to read a directory name within a bash script
tar command unable to find file in archive
list and remove directories in an archive
how to check if a unix .tar.gz file is a valid file without uncompressing?
output the root directory in a tar archive
check the total content size of a tar gz file
trying to tar a directory lists the directory instead
adding spaces to stdout
piping output from two tar processes into a single child
how to extract .tar.gz on current directory? (no subfolder)
shell tar: not found in archive error using regular expression
shell tar: not found in archive error using regular expression
shell tar: not found in archive error using regular expression
how to extract a single file from a tar site backup
swiftmailer: can't open .tar.gz archives on linux
how to suppress directory names in tar archived files?
hp-ux - how can i read a text file from tar archive without extracting it?
how can i untar a tar.bz file ?
unzip a single file in a tbz archive
how to untar all tar files in current directory using putty
untarring a moved file with shell
how can i extract a long list of tarballs via stdin?
unable to untar a file?
untarring a moved file with shell
how to read a file content from multiple compressed files without decompressing the folder?
list and remove directories in an archive
store the name of an extracted file to a temp file
-c option is ignored when calling tar via php
-c option is ignored when calling tar via php
how do i exclude absolute paths for tar?
how to strip path while archiving with tar
how to extract a single file from tar to a different directory?
extract tar file using bash scipt
how use tar and extract everything except certain files?
extract files contained in archive.tar.gz to new directory named archive
how do i concatenate a string with a literal inline and without spaces using bash?
how to uncompress a tar.gz in another folder
opening a .tar.gz file with a single command
extract 1 file from tar.gz with bash
how can i untar a sub directory?
in place untar and delete tar (or tar.gz)
untar a file on solaris reports - tar: directory checksum error
worth switching to zsh for casual use?
uncompressing a large number of files on the fly
how to convert multiline linux commands to one line of command
linux shell tar unwanted extra directories
how to know when a tar command finished?
how to tar a directory but exlude a file
write subset of a huge tar file to a new tar file without unpacking first
creating tar file and naming by current date
how do i concatenation two strings  without using variables?
tarring a file with shell not working
tarring files exclude the path before the folder i want to tar
is that possible to get backup from vps by shell access?
how to gzip all files in all sub-directories into one compressed file 
how can i substitute a name of a variable into a file name within a command?
how can i substitute a name of a variable into a file name within a command?
.tar vs .tgz...what is the difference?
how do i concatenation two strings  without using variables?
how do i concatenation two strings  without using variables?
shell script not saving file correctly
bash zip script
scp folder that does not exist in remote
write subset of a huge tar file to a new tar file without unpacking first
rename directory name before tar happens
installation a tool on linux having tar.uue extension
is there a way of combining bash scripts?
tar command unable to find file in archive
ssh, entered command but it didn't execute, can't type anything
how do i change the save location of my tar ball?
bash script to backup my "home" folder
setting file permissions on contents of tarfile
how to unzip tar.xz files?
how to unzip tar.xz files?
gpg with triple pipe and keyfile
go to path and then tar?
extract gnutls library files of tar.xz and tar.lz for ubuntu 10.04 lts
way to change xargs arguments to include a flag per argument?
solve "the command "taskkill /f /im myapp.vshost.exe" exited with code 128" error
how to modify return code in visual studio build events
how to get pid from  filtered by username and imagename
rgd window batch file command
visual studio pre-build event: batch file exit code is -1
how to send shutdown command to process through cmd prompt on windows
how to kill process that may not exist on prebuild step in visual studio?
connecting from linux to windows to perform a task
command prompt to text file with no overwrite?
how to start a wav file if a program is running via a batch script
choose the column from a cmd command
get the core id of a running bash script
how to pipe a tcl command with or zsh shell?
difference in tcl script execution with and without "-f"
parameters in tcl using ns2
how to grep listening on port 80 that can also filter other port contain 80 such as 8080 8088 ...?
capture network traffic on two different ports simultaneously
tcpdump commad - linux - unix
tcpdump commad - linux - unix
is it possible to run two programs simultaneously or one after another using a bash or expect script?
is it possible to create a non-child process inside a shell script?
tcpdump: output only source and destination addresses
available hosts on a network
available hosts on a network
linux bash script: set date/time variable to auto-update (for inclusion in file names)
running tcpdump inside bash script
read fails after tcpreplay with error: 0: resource temporarily unavailabl
what does the -b argument do in csh?
what does the -b argument do in csh?
generating tdb dataset from archive containing n-triples files
what does echo - - - mean  command?
watch file output  terminal as it is being written to the file
misbehaving head with redirection
piping an interactive session to a file
shell - pipe to multiple commands in a file
shell - pipe to multiple commands in a file
shell - pipe to multiple commands in a file
linux command ambiguous redirect
piping an interactive session to a file
devise script command utility with one simple line command
linux commands to copy one file to many files
xargs to copy one file into several
redirect the ouput of an interactive command to file and terminal
shell script output to console and log on same line?
how do i write stderr to a file while using "tee" with a pipe?
is there a way to trigger a hot key/keyboard shortcut via a shell script, a applescript or a automator workflow?
how to pass a group of commands to a shell script 
unable to send files using netcat
print time from external server 
send the "enter" from a bash script
get the process name from remote machine
how to check if smtp is working from commandline (linux)
how to check if smtp is working from commandline (linux)
how to remove similar redefinitions from a file using perl
why do double-quote change the result
removing leading \n while assaigning to a variable
256 colors in zsh-syntax-highlighting?
why won't my ruby script execute?
executing multiple commands on  linux
bash string matching
how to properly make path handling robust in a bash program?
code that is a no-op  but stops with an error message in csh?
bash: declare value in if statement
nicer one-liner for exiting bash script with error message
linux: copy and create destination dir if it does not exist
a bash script to run a program for directories that do not have a certain file
linux shell test `-d` on empty argument
basic shell scripting 
bash `mv -n` detect if not overwritten
ssh motd per user
node exec `test -e` command
node exec `test -e` command
bash test multiple files exists
shell script best way to remove files not in a pair
unable to understand a line in .bashrc
linux shell test `-d` on empty argument
output redirect  to another file iff the file exist
how to assign a variable inside a bash test command?
 leftsquarebrc : -gt: unary operator expected
test whether a glob has any matches  - with variables
test whether a glob has any matches  - with variables
why "test  leftanglebrc blah rightanglebrc " expression  is true?
how do i check what files i have permission to read in a directory?
check if gpg-agent is installed from bash
what is happening behind bash forward process substitution?
ternary construction not equivalent with if then else
having awk act upon results from a system command
ternary construction not equivalent with if then else
ternary construction not equivalent with if then else
understanding script to check if file exists or not
how to determine if a shell script file is sourced 
escaping bash 'test' keywork in a bash script
is there any copy update alternative command?
bash: multiple expression if statement
passing alias as parameter
what is the correct batch file syntax?
confusing syntax error near unexpected token 'done'
reading trace file from ns2 using gawk
 arguments not incrementinc argc
how to append a random string to all occurrences of another string in file
bash: what does 2 rightanglebrc &1 mean?
bash: what does 2 rightanglebrc &1 mean?
bash: what does 2 rightanglebrc &1 mean?
shell script help--accept input and run in background?
shell script help--accept input and run in background?
how to pass an array argument to the bash script
bash script exits with no error
sed: replace last dot
how to run testng from dos prompt
using sed in osx to rename files
how to set environment variable in makefile
how to set environment variable in makefile
pass empty variable 
shell script : how to make getopts just read the first character post `-`
nested for loop comparing files
how to quote strings in file names in zsh (passing back to other scripts)
problem in running a script
how do i run launch kdiff3 as a background process so it accepts two clearcase version controlled files as parameters?
\s regular expression
how to read lines from a text file one by one with power point vba code?
stdout to multiple variables
alias to open git conflicts in textmate
how to change case for such a case like this?
sed - stop multi-part command if pattern doesn't match?
sed - stop multi-part command if pattern doesn't match?
sed - stop multi-part command if pattern doesn't match?
textutil converts font to helvetica-light instead of helvetica
converting ascii formatted tables to rtf
how can i get labels of a sub folder under a team project using  tool tf.exe?
in tfs, how do i do a baseless merge on specific changesets?
setting up a workspace using team explorer everywhere on linux
make synchronized folder with tfs 
get latest from visual studio online using  passing /login credentials with tf.exe
get latest from visual studio online using  passing /login credentials with tf.exe
check that there are at least two arguments given in a bash script
compare date-time stamps
pipe string with newline to command ?
how to redirect the output of an invoked program to a file?
bash script capturing output to terminal
inserting variable after pattern using sed
filezilla,open site directly using 
saving output into a variable, viewing output live
saving output into a variable, viewing output live
shell script syntax error: unexpected end of line
shell script syntax error: unexpected end of line
how can i replace some text with another  console using a pipe?
bourne shell lower case
beginning and end of words in sed and grep
sed file separation with delimiters
how to print the variable 'num' in my bash shell
echo with || and &&
recursive search and replace with / and '
execute a read command
error with bash script
bash: dynamically assigning array to a new variable
remove eols and spaces between two tags in xml files
how to add two time outputs 
how to add two time outputs 
bash split string into own output
let a program run x seconds but preserve the ability to control-c
bash: run a command for n minutes, then sighup it
limiting processes to 0.5s 
open and then kill child process from bash
why does timeout not work within a bash script?
bash script that kills a child process after a given timeout
wget hanging, script stops
kill subprocesses using bash script
kill specific process on ssh greater than one minute
escaping single quotes for ssh command
why does `timeout` not work with pipes?
why `read -t` is not timing out  on rhel?
ctrl c 
limit step execution in a loop
bash: assigning the output of 'times' builtin to a variable
regex to capture title from year-month-day-title.ext
assign multiword string to a bash array element
using a filename with spaces with scp and chmod 
what's the meaning of these shell scripts?
command not found when running a local executable from csh script
command not found when running a local executable from csh script
use arguments in tmux script?
how to stop a script running in a tmux session?
matlab command (from bash / ) on an already running session
how do you switch to zsh when using nitrous.io
bash function with tmux send-keys
bash function with tmux send-keys
bash function with tmux send-keys
ubuntu set -g is not available to change the behaviour of scrolling in tmux - getting postgres set
tmux: how to make new window stay when start shell-command quits?
how to stop making tmux auto setting rbenv_version
how to stop making tmux auto setting rbenv_version
how to stop making tmux auto setting rbenv_version
how to stop making tmux auto setting rbenv_version
extracting portion of filename into variable using sed
extracting portion of filename into variable using sed
passing bash arguments into sed to delete lines
i'm trying to implement a basic shell for a class, but keep getting a seg fault. it worked before i made the getcommandandargs function, why not now?
windows  script variable going wrong somewhere?
bash script variable output not working
is it possible to show interactive shell command output on a webpage without refreshing the webpage?
how to measure cpu usage
how to measure cpu usage
why does 'top | grep  rightanglebrc  file' not work?
getting iowait with top and awk
shell script does not work when run as daemon
how to determine how much cpu load is produced from processes running under some user ?
see pids only by specific users 
linux shell - find top k number of processes
how to read input from the stdout of another command (pipe)  script?
join conditions in awk
add timestamp to top command batch output
how to output bash to text file in real time correctly?
a process command in top
awk multiple columns of top
optimal solution to extract value from line using grep
use 'top' to view memory usage of a process
passing control+c  script
how do i get an output from linux top in batch mode on every iteration?
saving cpu/memory trend in file
saving cpu/memory trend in file
get the highest value from a variable using bash script
understanding script to check if file exists or not
bash script: unable to move a file to another directory
bash script: unable to move a file to another directory
bash script: syntax error: unexpected end of file
shell string and program execute
is there an "escape converter" for file and directory names available?
custom command to create and open multiple files in terminal
bash variable substitution within command substitution
shell scripting - spaces in variables?
set mtime based on date string in file
logs rotating faster than cron batch job run interval
modify a directory without changing the timestamp
bash: how to set the date and time for all entries in the directory /home/virt/
bash: how to set the date and time for all entries in the directory /home/virt/
set mtime based on date string in filename
is there anything wrong with using git like this?
how to create a hidden file 
how to accomplish a logical or 
how to remove this  leftsquarebrc bash rightsquarebrc , everytime i open terminal?
make a text file in a certain directory from another directory 
executing a bash script upon file creation
linux shell bug? variable assignment in pipe does not work
restart server from bash console
unable to make a range of dummy files
execute command multiple times with curly brackets arguments list
execute command multiple times with curly brackets arguments list
bash: create a file if it does not exist, otherwise check to see if it is writeable
saving a file with the date and time using shell
using a count variable in a file name- bash
using a count variable in a file name- bash
average number of rows in 10000 text files
about basic commands  (cp, cd,..)
create a new file with same perms and owner as an existing file
bash crontab doesn't output products of shell script file
objective-c - how to convert file path to shell conform file path
shell script to count the number of files coming in a directory
creating multiple files with content from shell
creating multiple files with content from shell
how to dynamically add to $path on linux / os x
permission denied when trying to change permissions on ssh
cygwin clearscreen from bash
how to use environment variable inside a quoted string  script
in a subshell, how to read an environment variable from the calling shell?
signs for the enter key, page up and page down
using the "alternate screen" in a bash script
determining escape sequences for cursor keys canonically
using the "alternate screen" in a bash script
determining escape sequences for cursor keys canonically
echo ordered like book's indexes
shell to filter prohibited words on a file
read whole text file word by word with sorted words with bash
how can i get unique values from an array  bash?
find a word that only occurs once in a string
replace spaces characters by hard tab linux in 6gb file
batch - combining 3 columns of x, y, z values into 1 column without using matlab
remove all lines containing word not in dictionary
script to count words matching pattern c shell
how to replace  leftsquarebrc 10-15 rightsquarebrc  to 10 11 12..15 
extract words from files
extract words from files
lower case to uppercase conversion
bash script lowercase every string in the input file and output result to new file
character case conversion uppercase to lower and vice versa
bash: creating a pipeline to list top 100 words
why does the abs say tr 'a-z' 'a-z' requires quoting?
splitting a file on delimiter
issue with ofs in awk
shell scripting: using grep and tr in the shebang
shell scripting: using grep and tr in the shebang
parsing .csv file , not reading final line
add floating numbers 
add floating numbers 
replace comma with newline in sed
how to add newline after delimiter ?
probably grep, but still do not get how to read row in file1 and paste it as a column in file2
sed find occurances of pattern in a file
remove ctrl character except tab
parse value from output using awk
trying to delete non ascii characters only
trying to delete non ascii characters only
trying to delete non ascii characters only
is there a way to run a tr command (or something like it) in windows perl?
sh random number between range
how to remove non-ascii char using sed
how do i prevent long emails from becoming attachments?
how to find the number of tabs in a file?
bash: split text-file into words with non-alphanumeric characters as delimiters
bash: split text-file into words with non-alphanumeric characters as delimiters
sed + remove spaces between diffrent char with "," seperator between them
remove spaces from cells in matrix
a simple but logical issue with file formatting using awk
remove all whitespaces in a file- linux
using grep and sed to filter through text
remove all numbers and dashes from text file?
i'm trying to use tr with multiple sets and not sure how
i'm trying to use tr with multiple sets and not sure how
i'm trying to use tr with multiple sets and not sure how
how to tell sed "do not remove some characters"?
remove perticular keyword from a file 
removing double quotes from a csv file
sed multiple characters inside a getops
remove ^m characters from file using sed
remove non printing chars from bash variable
shell script /dev/urandom
how to split a string and extract the all-uppercase part ?
consistent implementation of tr?
unix $random function not random  terminal
shell script /dev/urandom
find strings that are alnum and can contain _ or #
how do i count different types of characters in a text file
how do i count different types of characters in a text file
converting bash output to json / dictionary
zipping a file  fails
| at the beginning of a line - bash
why won't sed remove my nulls? (os x)
removing non-displaying characters from a file
identifying and removing null characters 
troubleshooting grep: line too long
delete ^mnull characters in file
^m char creates extra new lines when using echo | mail
non greedy matching using ? with grep
non greedy matching using ? with grep
non greedy matching using ? with grep
^m char creates extra new lines when using echo | mail
how to run php file  infinite times
^m char creates extra new lines when using echo | mail
how to remove with awk/sed the characters that show up as sub in notepad++
how to remove non-ascii char using sed
won't delete or replace £ (pound) sign
how do i remove newlines from a text file?
removing new line character from incoming stream using sed
how can i capture the text between specific delimiters into a shell variable?
sed grabbing tags & newlines (mac osx)
combining lines from a text file ?
transform using a shell script a formated xml file into a one-line file containing all the tags
svn incosistent eol when adding file
how to run a bash script on a macbook pro?
bash script error possibly related to length of filename (actually i don't know what's wrong)
running shell script written  on windows os
error with bash script
why does s/$/,/g replace first character?
transforming text file into one line
bash script - cant read to var
removing carriage return on mac using sed
compare $1 with another string 
awk overwrites $nf.... with some input files
import csv line break woes
how to delete the ^m from standard output and standard error
python script runs only with the "python" command
how to add one space in the end of the line?
bash - reading multiple lines from text file
transforming text file into one line
bash/expect script echo result wrong
replacing two strings using awk
sed match pattern \ttext\t not working
remove ^m characters from file using sed
process substitution - tr says 'extra operand /dev/fd/63'
gnu sed - find or replacing spaces or new lines. why is this not working? v3.02 vs v4.2
bash cat multiple files content in to single string without newlines
how do i remove newlines from a text file?
is there a way to run a tr command (or something like it) in windows perl?
how to adjust spaces between words 
sed command substitution how do you treat spaces or multiple spaces as one?
how to count appearance of '1' in a file
shell script to count the occurrence of a word in a file
removing all characters expect a-z 0-9 
how split a file in words ?
how to pass several shell variables to awk ?
split string by newline and space in bourne shell
how to replace 2 new lines by one in the file
how to remove one tab out of two consequetive tabs 
bash cmdline tokenizer / relative frequency histogram... uniq fails
sort multiple tabs but ignoring spaces
cleaning up filenames within a directory
replacing specific non-printable characters in huge files from linux 
how can i change 0123 into actg with tr or perl?
how to convert numbers to the first letters of the alphabet?
1-indexing to 0-indexing in grep/sed/awk
parsing and printing $path using unix
how to remove padding from awk command?
replacing special character by tab separation
log analysis script 
sed/awk: replace n occurrence 
how to take a single record in a file and display it vertically with the count of field before the actual field is displayed
pipe command together
using  to lowercase all text in all files?
replace 5 dots with a single space
replace 5 dots with a single space
unix uniq command to csv file
how to toggle case for text in a file
pipe command together
why won't sed remove my nulls? (os x)
what sed script can replace a range of hex characters with another
what is good way to modify (add number to every byte) binary file ?
bash separation of line with newlines instead of spaces
newbie: how can i include redirection  script?
replacing newline sed
removing new line character from incoming stream using sed
rearrangement rows to columns on linux
reading a string from file
process file to 'staggered' format
split a text into multiple sentences 
shell replace cr\lf by comma
sed command  script
unix: replace newline w/ colon, preserving newline before eof
sed/awk: replace n occurrence 
sed multi-line replacement with line merging
sed multi-line replacement with line merging
mac unix script: given a list of file paths, find the one with latest modified date?
translate regex substitution from regexr to work  script
file names stacking during for loop
sed doesn't read csv when saved in excel
cat command not reading all data in text file
change a tab to a semicolon?
how do i convert a tab-separated values (tsv) file to a comma-separated values (csv) file ?
sort | uniq | xargs grep ... where lines contain spaces
removing unicode line separator 
bash cat multiple files content in to single string without newlines
bash script parse files for multiple occurrence of string between pattern
bash script parse files for multiple occurrence of string between pattern
linux shell script: how to match substring with regex
restore traps without a temp file
c minishell adding pipelines
how to don't trap a return value of a function
when tee command redirect to subshell, the last two lines missing
ignoring bash pipefail for error code 141
trap function by passing arguments?
aop programming ? (call something before bash function is  executed?)
multiple bash traps for the same signal
run script before bash exits
dialog - text on one line
pipe multiple commands to a single command with no eof signal wait
bash: how to get the call chain on errors?
terminate shell code while it is running
bash script doesn't catch sigint while in read loop
terminating infinite loop with piped command in scope
what does `set -e` in a bash script mean?
bash - how to find current shell command
how does ctrl-c terminate a child process?
get name of the last command in a script
bash, run some command before or after every command entered from console
concurrent logging  scripts
bash - update terminal title by running a second command
signals received by bash when terminal is closed
how to rewrite while loop  script to prevent create temp file?
how to rewrite while loop  script to prevent create temp file?
kill background process when shell script exit
poking a character into a parent process's buffer
stop execution of python script when parent bash shell script is killed
how to have a shell script continue after reboot?
synchronizing current directory between two zsh sessions
"die" signal handler 
"die" signal handler 
bash: set a process to die in start parameters with sighup
bash: my own exit proc
bash: my own exit proc
trap function by passing arguments?
multiple bash traps for the same signal
program doesn't stop when "ctrl c" is used to terminate program
kill background process when shell script exit
bash linux: start multiple program in parallel and stop all when one has finished
exit all processes that shell started
, how can i run multiple infinitely-running commands and cancel them all with ^c?
, how can i run multiple infinitely-running commands and cancel them all with ^c?
how do i terminate all the subshell processes?
kill background process when shell script exit
concurrent logging  scripts
how to have customize log format for "set -x" / shell script?
exiting a function with trap and its error code
bash set -x echo redirects as well as commands
parent process and child process relationship  bash script
what's the meaning of these shell scripts?
timing traps in a shell script
shell script: execute command after running "exit" command in the shell script
trap syntax issue 
can you access the code of an exit command in a trap?
how to stop all progs ran in parallel from bash-script when it stopped by ctrl+c
terminate tcpdump in script and continue executing next command
print n lines of a "command's --help" on stdout
to restrict a node from `tree` by tree or git
how can i sort file names by version numbers?
exit from bash infinite loop in a pipeline
bash change directory from script with menu
can execute binary, but not using "source"
timestamp accuracy on ext4 (sub millsecond)
exit from bash infinite loop in a pipeline
how to make shell script non blocking?
shell script : how if condition evaluates true or false
what's the meaning of the operator || ?
using compound conditions  script
using compound conditions  script
difference between && and || in c and unix shells?
what is the difference of these two ways ?
bash converting string to boolean variable
bash file existence checking missing  rightsquarebrc 
syntax for a single-line bash infinite while loop
variable is not changing from subshell
variable is not changing from subshell
shell script use ssh remote run command whit nohup in the background,but this ssh process can not be close. but i use the screen is all perfect
running a process that waits on input in the background, without it pausing and without sending input
time counter in a shell script
bash returning true false
remove first n lines of a file in place 
what is the simplest way to delete the contents of a file ?
how to shrink a large file ?
convert current date to unix timestamp but using days
sed or awk to make url querystring readable
redirect command output to mysql
bash script makes connection using freetds, interacts, doesn't exit (just hangs)
ttf2eot - what is the input path on mac os x?
ttf2eot - what is the input path on mac os x?
difference between ( ) & and ( &)?
difference between ( ) & and ( &)?
use output of bash command (with pipe) as a parameter for another command
tie the life of a process to the shell that started it
awk converting a "long date" to datetime
finding values in text files using batch file
print all commands with pathnames
print all commands with pathnames
what's the correct way to redirect both stdout and stderr ?
path path prefix
shebang groovy giving error
shell - how to find directory of some command?
mv command creates directories
check if a function exists before executing it 
how to read data from com port using batch file?
specify doxygen parameters through 
display file contents
display file contents
overriding windows cmd internal commands
overriding windows cmd internal commands
is there replacement for cat on windows
how do i check if two specific programs exist on a system in an if conditional?
how to print a function definition ?
comparing/finding the difference between two text files using findstr
bash not honoring $path?
mv command creates directories
how to use pip with multiple instances of python
how can i prevent "type" stdout from appearing while running my script?
print script content (python)
finding if 'which' command is available on a system through bash
can i list source for already defined bash functions?
what is the korn typset option -t (tag) used for?
shell script: run function from script over ssh
shell script: run function from script over ssh
altering zsh's $path variable in a script that is to be sourced
read string from file and convert into an int
how do i set the timezone from  ?
how do i set the timezone from  ?
how do i set the timezone from  ?
understanding part of linux bash script
automate the signature of the update.rdf manifest for my firefox extension
generate a core dump 
limit size wget can download
limit size wget can download
how to safely experiment with scripts that fork themselves
set different umask for files and folders
files created through cygwin (calling a shell script) don't have correct windows permissions
what does $@ mean in a shell script?
bash script - umount a device, but don't fail if it's not mounted?
mac command - check free space on usb?
unaliasing a global alias in zsh
unaliasing a global alias in zsh
after installation rvm and ruby 1.9.3 every bash path change rvm initialization script is printed
doesn't work on tcsh: set kk=`cd $the_path; pwd`
how can i check in my bashrc if an alias was already set
quote a macro preprocessor using -d
is it possible to detect 32 bit vs 64 bit in a bash script?
linux version check linux command or a java code
is it possible to detect 32 bit vs 64 bit in a bash script?
get only part of uname -r 
sh/expect/sudo/screen all needed together in one command
how can i pipe from terminal in perl without losing color?
bash: standard output puzzle
bash capture output of running script
 extract from swf?
how to replace softtabs with hardtabs in sed
generating petsc binary file using python
can i tell make to ignore environment variables?
how do i keep functions/variables local to my zshrc?
error in partial preprocessing in makefile
shell script : replace contents
count number of occurences of token in a file
grep a whole line based on the first time a term is found
how would you group a number of lines?
how to get average number of times a line in a file is repeated?
why uniq -c output with space instead of \t?
need to remove the count from the output when using "uniq -c" command
need to remove the count from the output when using "uniq -c" command
need to remove the count from the output when using "uniq -c" command
need to remove the count from the output when using "uniq -c" command
conditionally print line only when column entry doesn't match previous line's column
uniq many files in place
running test until failure and viewing full debug: bash not displaying output of command properly
replace lf with cr-lf in text file cygwin
replace lf with cr-lf in text file cygwin
view line-endings in a text file
sending attachments with mail  with mailx command
if running cp in a perl script will files that exist be overwritten?
scripting: get number of root files in rar archive
shell script (running via cron) to enter password when prompted
unsetting a group of environmental variables
how to programmatically unset global bash variables/manage bash global scope?
after installation rvm and ruby 1.9.3 every bash path change rvm initialization script is printed
remove function definition (unalias equivalent)
how do i delete a bash function?
convert an integer inside a bash loop into a variable
running a program in debug without hard coding debug = true in python
how can i run git commands via shell script?
remote nodejs server deployment with forever
send string as arguments 
how to unset variables after use in .zshrc?
turn on bash -x
how do i cause my computer to use lot of ram?
remove the last element from an array
remove last argument from argument list
unset command on bash arrays: pathname expansion and side effects mentioned in the manual
how to programmatically unset global bash variables/manage bash global scope?
bash array: remove elements starting with dash (-)
unbound variable inside associative array key
how do i delete a bash function?
ld_preload affects new child even after unsetenv("ld_preload")
case-insensitive glob on zsh/bash
zsh overzealously trying to correct feature to features
how to fix zsh: correct 'deploy' to '_deploy'  leftsquarebrc nyae rightsquarebrc ?
how can i turn this into shellcode?
how can i turn this into shellcode?
un-archiving single file hanging
untaring files into a new folder
bash - unzip specific type of files from multiple zip
find all zips, and unzip in place - unix
find the actual file name of the zip
compare zip file with dir with shell command
redirect grep output to file
unzip contents based on wildcard negative matching
unzip contents based on wildcard negative matching
how to read manifest.mf file from jar using bash
unzip list of files that are specified in txt files
error trapping with unzip?
unjar to a specific destination
how to extract only one kind of file from the archive?
how to export a special file from zip archive?
ruby 1.8 not showing on the 
remove the first word in filename 
ruby 1.8 not showing on the 
how to log output  and see it in the terminal at the same time?
bash: is there different on set locale through export other than update-locale?
how to run a script at the start up of ubuntu?
bash locate command with pattern
locate does not return hits for content of `~/library`
can't create new foundation project
bash script, !=: command not found
bash disagrees with my pipes, refuses to do the full command
awk and printf 
bash disagrees with my pipes, refuses to do the full command
showing only the uptime from uptime  leftsquarebrc unix rightsquarebrc 
bash: how to delete last symbol
showing only the uptime from uptime  leftsquarebrc unix rightsquarebrc 
debian: find out cpu usage using bash
converting a code from bash to php
how to execute a script in zsh and then become interactive?
convert xml file with 9 unique fields per line to pre-formed urls using only 4 of field per line
shell command syntax, input array of args for single option
how to denote that a  argument is optional when printing usage
using mysql  client
'+' (one or more occurences) not working with 'sed' command
can i use perl's switches with /bin/env in the shebang line?
executing a shell script that requires sudo from a web app
scripting with unix to get the processes run by users
ssh : how to assign specifics directories to each user?
ssh : how to assign specifics directories to each user?
makefile task halt on error, can i continue run it?
add user to linux command
how to useradd with multiple parameters
how to useradd with multiple parameters
bash and/or .bashrc not working properly after su or ssh login unless run "bash" command
how can i make a bash script that sudo's all by itself in os x on a standard account, assuming i know the root password?
changing user to root when connected to a linux server and copying files
how to create a user  and make a command autoexecute everytime the user opens a shell?
keeping track of number of logins with awk
linux batch command to get users that start from a specific string
linux batch command to get users that start from a specific string
linux batch command to get users that start from a specific string
when add  support to my winforms app is it better to use same exe file or add new console application project?
removing non-displaying characters from a file
installation a tool on linux having tar.uue extension
script to move folder based on modified date
bash script using mailx to mail attachment
sending simple message body + file attachment using linux mailx
how to attach a file using mail command on linux?
bash script using mailx to mail attachment
need with a regex that can handle optional substrings
need with a regex that can handle optional substrings
sed replace every nth occurrence
ruby capture stderr output from bash script execution
ruby capture stderr output from bash script execution
how do i determine the name of the invoked jar in scala?
bash script function call error
using argument to call php 
using awk or sed 
working with awk regex
first variable is overwrited by the second variable 
save output into variable
accessing shell variable in a perl program
variable assignment in kornshell
user input javascript eval with variable declarations
running file from ssh connection doesn't work correctly. file got executed correctly only with direct connection
osx: how can check whether a file exists in current directory using applescript?
whats going wrong? awk output from a temporary variable into bash array
zsh completion from script prompt (like bash's read -e)
how can i access bash variables in tcl(expect) script
improve the way that i'm passing debug commandline arguments
is there a way to use devenv.exe on the  to link-only a project instead of full-build a project?
how do i compile a visual studio project from the command-line?
unix running tar command
how to reference a specific line from previous output?
why "cat a.txt | xargs vi" destroy the bash?
open vi with passed file name
zsh function screws up prompt after exit
terminal formatting issue after vim
inserting text from a file to the beginning of another file - bash
make vi start by inserting and then move cursor down
linux: extract the first line of a file
bash: how to duplicate input/output from interactive scripts only in complete lines?
phalcon documentation: installation/freebsd
how to open gem library using with vim and console using oneliner command
terminal formatting issue after vim
edit rails migration file in one command
zsh function screws up prompt after exit
how to restore .bash_profile on a mac? none of my unix terminal are working
pass a command into mysql login
vim: how to go to exact line on ubuntu
why does this gstreamer pipeline stall?
how to use vim to open every .txt file under a directory (with bash)
opening multiple files in text editor with find command
opening multiple files in text editor with find command
using xargs vim with gnu screen
yanking text from the previous stdout onto the 
can you mass edit all files returned in a grep?
use the result of a command
why does "locate filename | xargs vim" cause strange terminal behaviour?
force vim to quit from editing list of files
shell script to add header to a file
run vim command from commandline
how to run vim commands from terminal
how to run vim commands from terminal
is it possible to easily translate vim search and replace + macros into sed?
is there a way to call vim macro's inside shell script?
how to execute the vim commands through shell script
open specific number of files in vim with specific pattern from 
bash - convert list of hex values to binary file (application)
shell: run vim command using shell
call vim command from shell script
vim change colorscheme from commandline
how to run a series of vim commands from command prompt
is there a way to call vim macro's inside shell script?
install a vimball from the 
install a vimball from the 
find files with grep and open in editor
is it possible to make a script of commands to be run within vim?
why does "locate filename | xargs vim" cause strange terminal behaviour?
use the result of a command
bash command to open largest file
while executing a shell script i created a .txt file, edited it, after saving the script exits
how to apply regex commands in vi without opening a file
how do i open a file in vim from inside a conque shell
edit a remote file with vim
using vim to remotely edit a file on serverb only accessible from servera
linux shell - replacing string with other string inside files
cat a file to a variable
how can i run the ssh-agent auto in the zsh environment?
how to remove blank lines without using tr?
is there a command-line equivalent to kdiff3 that allows selective merging?
how can i use awk to remove "name" columns and only print the kvm* fields?
single result of virt-top
pip and virtualenv
installing python 2 and 3 separately
installing python 2 and 3 separately
running imagesnap in php with mac server
how do i silence vlc output from bash script completely?
 youtube in vlc player - quality control?
number of interrupts last second (bash)
efficient way to parse vmstat output
how to grep a column?
reuse percent sign in makefile prerequesite as subdirectory name
awk multiple conditionals not printing
awk: syntax error near unexpected token `('
how to add multiple line of output one by one to a variable ?
how do i start commands in new terminals  script
shell script to read file line by line does not work
wait command 
bash script processing commands in parallel
wait for all processes with a certain name to finish ()
wait command 
shell script for testing
perform a command when a process dies
broadcast user message to all using wall
progress bar during smbclient put
bash-program "watch" and ansi escape sequences in the output
how to get information about the client that requests page from server?
printing contents of a http file to a shell?
what is wrong with this command?
auto-refreshing mysql query on linux commandline
bash - replace & write into same line
gnu watch: justify on the lower left of the terminal
gnu watch: justify on the lower left of the terminal
gnu watch: justify on the lower left of the terminal
printing out the value from a matrix
cat file with no line wrap
cat file with no line wrap
how does "watch" work on concatenated commands?
how do i properly quote this bash pipeline for watch?
linux watch command not working in script
linux command not working
keep running process/refresh 
"tail -f" alternate which doesn't scroll the terminal window
passing a variable inside quotation marks to a command 
passing a variable inside quotation marks to a command 
longest line in a file
counting number of characters in a file through shell script
count number of tab characters 
bash: how to take a number from string? (regular expression maybe)
bash: how to take a number from string? (regular expression maybe)
counting number of characters in a file through shell script
php script dies when it calls a bash script, maybe a problem of server configuration
strange problem with cut,colrm,awk and sed: fail to cut characters from a pipe stream
how to get "wc -l" to print just the number of lines without file name?
bash echo number of lines of file given in a bash variable
unix shell to prompt user for filename
setting variable linux
storing text and numeric variable from file to use in perl script
how to only get the number of lines of a file
how to clean csv by another csv while in a 'for' loop?
bash wont assign variables
using cut command 
how to touch files per each counting in loop ?
splitting a text file into 2 equal halves
linux commands to output part of input file's name and line count
file with the most lines in a directory not bytes
how to clean csv by another csv while in a 'for' loop?
unix shell to prompt user for filename
bash while line numbers in file is smaller than x
how to count lines of code including sub-directories
calculate count in a loop failed 
cut command to delimit the output and add them
how to touch files per each counting in loop ?
using gnu parallel with split
bash: how to pipe each result of one command to another
bash: how to pipe each result of one command to another
which command add the total in command ls|xargs wc -l?
which command add the total in command ls|xargs wc -l?
wc and reading from a file
bash pipe limit
shell script: if statement
how to delete last n rows in a file by using bash file?
how to read a dynamically changing file
any way to see the number of lines in a file without opening the file?
comparing the record count between source and target database
help me make this bash script pretty, or just less ghastly
bash: remove linebreak after result
best practice for passing a single line of input to a command's stdin using bash
how to count number of words from string using shell
what does this bash script line of code means
what does this bash script line of code means
use find, wc, and sed to count lines
results of wc as variables
assets under /web/bundles not found in symfony2 production
how can i grep a keyword which contain underscore?
download files using bash script using wget
download files using bash script using wget
how to fix wget download file name when the url is redirected
how to get real filename from wget
getting absolute path of a link from web page source
how to filter a specific entry from "--help" option?
how do i download oracle java on linux using wget / curl from shell?
xml parsing , print multiple elements
is there any way i could get this behavior with curl?
how to use pastebin from shell script?
script to log on to website, check for changes and email if changed
bash script - get file name with curl after post
how to send data using curl from linux ?
howto created trimmed directory tree while using wget for ftp download
wget: how to bypass "hotlinking" protected image
get a file from anonfiles with wget
http testing on the , is there something better than curl?
hide variable application result from bash output
bash kill wget if no response
controlling firefox through terminal
keep files updated from remote server
set downloaded filename in a different directory using wget
i want to call the entire alphabet multiple letters deep on a site, is that easy to do
use wget from sh script
how do i see html tags  text browser?
save imagemagick file directly to s3 from ec2
save imagemagick file directly to s3 from ec2
how do i see html tags  text browser?
how to get a list of available files using wget or curl?
how to restart application in tomcat server
linux script to select an option & download resulting file from web page
how do i efficiently pretty-print a list of json objects?
wait for parallel remote process to finish bash ssh
how to wait till all services are up in parallel using bash?
whitespaces in url causing wget to fail
manipulating local files remotely with ruby?
manipulating local files remotely with ruby?
manipulating local files remotely with ruby?
hide variable application result from bash output
using wget with buggy url
url is not accessible through wget e or script
regexp  (downloading output form regexp)
escape @ in wget for ftp login
wget recursive folder structure with multiple index.html files in tree
a better way to download ftp contents to another server
wget folder 
download all files of a certain type without directories
grabbing text from html source
grabbing text from html source
return a part of regular expression with egrep on ubuntu?
how to parse rss-feeds / xml in a shell script
bash grep view count from youtube
rewriting 3 commands into one command or script that can be run on cron
sed: scraping a range of numbers
using api  without curl
how to write a web page to a txt file and using the first line as a variable
extract url part of the line
downloading most recent file on server via wget
bash script: fork based on currest isp
escaping in wget bash command
escaping in wget bash command
extract email addresses from a website using scripts
what is meant by 'output to stdout'
what is meant by 'output to stdout'
data scraping with wget and regex
data scraping with wget and regex
how to use variable from loop as parameter
using wget to recursively fetch a directory with arbitrary files in it
using wget to recursively fetch a directory with arbitrary files in it
how to download a full web page (css, js and images included) and all linked web pages
how do you recursively ftp a folder 
wget hanging, script stops
wget using sed output in post request
filtering output from wget using sed
filtering output from wget using sed
executing multiple (wget) commands in mac terminal properly?
how can i write a bash script that pulls all of the http://whatever.com/something out of a file
bash scripting passing with in a file
whats the best practice for conditionals  when checking multiple statements?
i get a scheme missing error with cron
estimating network i/o speed using scp
nexus : how to get libraries from sonatype nexus using bash or batch or python?
how to download public file to server?
using ssh, transfer a weburl from local machine browser to remote machine on hard disk
how to find out latest file name from a website using a shell script
gitlab get tar of a specific branch via 
usage of wget for a long url
check for existence of wget/curl
getting webpage title, img, metadata info from linux terminal
wget log only succefull downloaded url
download files using shell script
how to call a php page uri from bash on a local nginx server
retrieve random video from youtube gdata api
installing gitlab missing modernizer?
save json outputed from a url to a file
save json outputed from a url to a file
wget and run/remove bash script in one line
wget and run/remove bash script in one line
how to extract the percentage from the last row using grep?
how to extract the percentage from the last row using grep?
how to execute shell scripts from 32-bit wine on 64-bit linux?
can awk do this? fixed with fields, horizontal and vertical records mixed
wget download not completing all pages
wget download not completing all pages
wget download not completing all pages
partial download with wget
how do i download a file from a variable url via shell?
how to use wget to download just html file with out downloading flash content(images and css sheets) ?
linux and wget.. specify alternate link
how to write and run a shell program on terminal without saving it first
how can i trigger a url from the terminal
how can i trigger a url from the terminal
how can i trigger a url from the terminal
checkout branch from github without cloning whole repo, and without git
error while installing oh-my-zsh
scraping a web page and extracting words that begin with a particular symbol
how to wget/curl a dynamically built zip archive?
how to wget/curl a dynamically built zip archive?
use of percent sign (%) as a cmd parameter is interpreted as a variable
change php script with variables from working in http to working 
windows wget & being cut off
multiple conditions in if
awk how pass parameters to the function, called from inside awk
awk how pass parameters to the function, called from inside awk
replacing nth character using unix magic
is there a way to output to both a file and the console?
how to convert rows into column using awk?
combine two files  with out repetation
combine two files  with out repetation
how to get filename without extension from %f  terminal?
getting rsync in ansible to work with vagrant
getting rsync in ansible to work with vagrant
how to do a if-else operation in ksh command from parsing
how to run sunspot reindex in background for every four hours
how do i capture a sqlplus exit code within a shell script?
list executables in path on windows
'chcp' is not recognized as an internal or external command, operable program or batch file. on a windows pc
how can i write a loop bash script with a mysql query including subqueries?
shortening bash output command
shortening bash output command
php interface for kernel's ip routing tables
linux shell storing path
bash script string comparison error, can't figure out
shell test to see whether a binary is in your path
how can i find all copies of an executable name in my path?
retrieve r output in php
shell script executes in terminal but not with double click on ubuntu
make an awk file executable
how can i know which shell i am using?
cd in binary directory
what's the correct way to redirect both stdout and stderr ?
what's the correct way to redirect both stdout and stderr ?
what's the correct way to redirect both stdout and stderr ?
what's the correct way to redirect both stdout and stderr ?
how to do a if-else operation in ksh command from parsing
bash no such file or directory
getting "-bash: edit: command not found" in terminal
output from `which` ignores redirects
output from `which` ignores redirects
running hadoop commands in a shell script
shell script fails when executed by cronjob, works fine otherwise
shell scripting - check java bin
unix, change the interpreter line in all shell scripts
swapping two files 
using cron to make forever.js reboot-proof
php cli and bashrc files?
why does my command works in the cli but not with a cron job?
postgresql command execution  script
how does macports install packages? how can i activate a ruby installation done via macports?
ruby through rvm fails
#!/usr/bin/env ruby is not found in cron
installed ruby via rvm doesn't run (says nomemoryerror)
cannot make a cronjob get the status of a service
how to check if subversion is installed using shell script on mac
test if executable exists 
nohup error no such file or directory
how to display command output in a whiptail textbox
whiptail or dialog don't working by ssh
bash scripts : whiptail file select
bash scripts : whiptail file select
how to find out who run sudo command?
display users on linux with tabbed output
c minishell adding pipelines
is there a ${ssh_connection%% *} equivalent in telnet?
sed $display of currently logged in user
what does "|" means in terminal?
what does "|" means in terminal?
export user env variable for use in cron
export user env variable for use in cron
want to store a string into a file, with the filename being the output of a command 
change output of whoami to uppercase 
change output of whoami to uppercase 
change output of whoami to uppercase 
change output of whoami to uppercase 
ubuntu command to return the information as displayed on whois.domaintools.com
handling 'windows' type data in grep
how to run .exe executable file from linux ?
using expect to login, copy file and bounce server
use terminal to display image without losing focus
get x window id from process 
use terminal to display image without losing focus
problem with awk & grep
how can i get hardware ids/serial numbers through command prompt?
how to find the percentage of free space for mapped drives?
pass yes answer to cmd
how to get a windows service information via batch file script
user sid copy/paste using ?
bash: creating a pipeline to list top 100 words
appending to line with sed, adding separator if necessary
appending to line with sed, adding separator if necessary
bash install of wordpress, without visiting wp-admin/install.php
is it possible to redirect boris output (php interactive )?
how can i use variable arguments with wpa_passphrase?
how to avoid command window popping on cmd.exe
bash, prompt for numerical input
deploy ear file to was 7 from 
vbscript automate  "yes/no" queston
netcat "connection refused" on localhost
how to call shell script from php that requires sudo?
how to zip specific files from a folder using winzip ?
how to zip specific files from a folder using winzip ?
replace strings with more than one character
how do i add a line of text to the middle of a file using bash?
get string between strings 
get string between strings 
bash - grepping for a value stored in a variable
how to escape my string when i calling a shell commend in perl?
how to escape my string when i calling a shell commend in perl?
interactive shell mechanism with macruby/xcode
how to escape my string when i calling a shell commend in perl?
how to escape my string when i calling a shell commend in perl?
how does associative arrays work in awk?
get number of files modified last month
how to launch gui emacs from  in osx?
run commands in seperate terminal using shell script (bash)
find and delete files with non-ascii names
how to automate a vnc+ssh solution
how do i convert among printed decimal/octal/hex/utf-8 representations of a utf-8 character from the command-line?
find and delete files with non-ascii names
how to split a file into smaller files (one file per line)  leftsquarebrc split doesn't work rightsquarebrc 
use grep to find content in files and move them if they match
pass list of arguments to a command 
how do you run a command for each line of a file?
how do you run a command for each line of a file?
optional  parameter shell
how do you run a command for each line of a file?
xargs grep ignore files that dont meet query
add newline after email address
xargs - use eof as delimeter
grepping lines from a document using xargs
search files from a list for a string
running a command on each id in a text file
copying moving deleting directories  with array and/or numerically
using sed on xargs variable isn't working inside shell expansion
using sed on xargs variable isn't working inside shell expansion
bash: using the output of one command in the other
make xargs execute the command once for each line of input
text file each line to command 
bash how to get var from file with multiple lines
bash how to get var from file with multiple lines
parallel execution of shell processes
how can i write an automator action  with files and folders as arguments?
how to prompt a user from a script run with xargs
reading in from stdin from a command executed with xargs
pipe arguments to hunspell with xargs
how do i use line output from a command as separate file names ?
using sed to insert text at the beginning of each line
using mysqldump with where option and a long argument list  script
using mysqldump with where option and a long argument list  script
using mysqldump with where option and a long argument list  script
shell command/script to delete files whose names are in a text file
copy files from a list to a folder
search files from a list for a string
pipes with apt package manager
pipes with apt package manager
bash find filter and copy - trouble with spaces
, why can we set some environment variable by ps1='something' and others need to be export some_var='something'?
separating characters of a string, bash shell
linux bash multithread/process small jobs
read commands from text file and run it in qshell
extract every nth number from a txt file
running a command on each id in a text file
order repeated values to the new row
bash script read hostnames from .txt file and place in variable for ssh
passing each line of a file as  argument to a binary file
bash foreach loop
unix/bash: reading a list of files and merge them to a file
how can i write an automator action  with files and folders as arguments?
shell script issue can't find the total size
looking to convert a simple svn tool to git
loop through files which do not contain certain texts in makefile
search files from a list for a string
bash script to read a file from the  with list of files
bash script to read a file from the  with list of files
finding most recent file version from list of file path names with jumbled file names
finding most recent file version from list of file path names with jumbled file names
read commands from text file and run it in qshell
ubuntu:- append remove keyword to a file
"invalid command code ." while trying to use grep and sed to replace string in multiple files
grep and inserting a string
sort any random list of files by modification date
mac os: /usr/bin/env: bad interpreter: operation not permitted
mac os: /usr/bin/env: bad interpreter: operation not permitted
building and running monodevelop solution in os x terminal
sed backreferences and command interpolation
invoke a java app from shell script
converting xcf and other files using  with gimp?
copying an image to the clipboard from 
paste a chunk of text from stdin to a specific location in a file  leftsquarebrc solved rightsquarebrc 
get and set x11 clipboard(s) 
how can we know the default installation directory of xcode through ?
is xcode replace system commands while run script phase?
xcode ibtool command looking for non-existing directory
can i get the derived data path from xcodetools?
xcodebuild fails to build from terminal but succeeded from xcode
build and run ios7 app through 
building/running ios app from 
how can i build a specific architecture using xcodebuild?
xcode  tool (xcode 4.6) run unit tests from terminal
batch/bat to copy folder and content at once
copy a file using a makefile at runtime
how do i copy from numerous release directories to a single folder
windows batch command to move all wanted sub-folders recrusively in a directory to a new folder
using xcopy to copy specific files across directories
how to use xcopy to select specific folders(not files) within another folder
copying folder content
why is "xcodebuild: command not found" in this build script?
xcrun packageapplication, failed unable to copy application
xcrun packageapplication, failed unable to copy application
xdg-open doesn't work when another command's output is piped to it
recursive directory-diff accepting external diff
how would i get the current mouse coordinates ?
bash script: delete characters in string up to and including a phrase?
show ubuntu unity's laucher through 
simulating key press using bash
how to keyboard type a variable using xdotool?
bash - send string to cursor
how to execute a command in a bash script and then focus the appearing window
sed regex to find monitor resolution
sed: screen resolution from xdpyinfo
how to lock my monitor with command ?
splitting xml file using grep / sed / awk?
script with nawk doesn't print output to screen
script with nawk doesn't print output to screen
access x11 display from empty environment (bash)
html/xml parser that executes bash functions and passes text as argument
extracting td/tr from html ?
extracting td/tr from html ?
extracting td/tr from html ?
how to extract data (user name)from webpage
how to extract data (user name)from webpage
how to extract data (user name)from webpage
extracting data from a command response and store it in a variable
extracting data from a command response and store it in a variable
getting a column of a specific line 
linux shell script for each file in a directory grab the filename and execute a program
know which wm is used from a shell
get sheetname from xlsx2csv linux command
cut the output of a command
get userinput from bash script (executed by cron or udev)
set the text value of a node using xpath
set the text value of a node using xpath
set the text value of a node using xpath
namespace error when using xmlstarlet
extraction of data from a simple xml file
converting xml input from multiple lines to one line
how can i remove junk from outside valid xml tags?
remove eols and spaces between two tags in xml files
xml starlet alternative
xml starlet alternative
how to get a flat xml so that external entities are merged to the top level
get xmllint to output xpath results \n-separated, for attribute selector
print xml element with awk
get valid url from string using bash script
bash script: get xml elements into array using xmllint
print xml element with awk
xml_grep get attribute from element
regular expression shell script save specific part of file to variable
schematron sh script not behaving
schematron sh script not behaving
searching for xml tag by value between them and inserting a new tag 
how could i remove xml elements in multiple files?
how to search and replace this string with sed?
replace dynamic content in xml file
structured output between linux commands
html/xml parser that executes bash functions and passes text as argument
download all linked files from wikipedia page
download all linked files from wikipedia page
how should i go about converting xml into csv
concat multiple xml elements with xmlstarlet
concat multiple xml elements with xmlstarlet
extract text between two strings in simple example.html file
carving elements from xml (xmlstarlet,awk,perl..)
how do i update a string attribute with xmlstarlet?
xmlstarlet: how to select items to build a hash
xpath to list available tags non recursively (using xmllint in a shell script)
parsing large xml file for specific instance of a repeating element
shell script, parse xml snippet
extract cell value from html table using bash
regular expression shell script save specific part of file to variable
iterate through xml with xmlstarlet
how to grep and replace it multiple files and multiples elements on os x
xmlstarlet - search attribute
xmlstarlet: how to select items to build a hash
refer to variable in xpath command  script
return multiple attributes with perl's xpath command
how to return array with xpath?
android get project name bash
how to return array with xpath?
search for the word and exporting 35characters after that word using shell script?
pipe urls from xml into seperate file , using sed, awk, cat or grep
bash xhtml parsing using xpath
suppress verbose xpath output
, how to escape "{}"?
why isn't count nodes working?
getting `xprop` of child/client window given x id of frame
how to combine sed 'sentences'?
sed regex to find monitor resolution
how to combine sed 'sentences'?
bash script to execute multiple programs with arguments usins xterm
run a shell script in new terminal from current terminal
how do i start a command in a terminal as if i'd opened the terminal and typed the command
create shell script to open two terminal with different programs in gdb with here document
using a shell script to call multiple ros launch files
mac: gnome-terminal equivalent for shell script
how to echo to a newly spawned xterm
create shell script to open two terminal with different programs in gdb with here document
bash command to run a program in a new  window
bash script argument with spaces
bash script argument with spaces
bash script argument with spaces
bash script argument with spaces
bash script to execute multiple programs with arguments usins xterm
opening another window through bash script, while keeping the main thread running
opening new terminal  scrip
bash - shell script opening multiple terminals and executing distinct commands
bash script write executing time in a file
bash script write executing time in a file
wkhtmltopdf returns nothing
executing a desktop app  by  without showing its gui window
is there a way to find the titlebar height and window borders in gnome3?
how do i copy from numerous release directories to a single folder
bash/unix toolchain binary stream processing/slicing
unix command-line tool for randomly shuffling chunks of bytes in a binary file?
bash/unix toolchain binary stream processing/slicing
unix command-line tool for randomly shuffling chunks of bytes in a binary file?
bash/unix toolchain binary stream processing/slicing
copy mac com.apple.resourcefork extended attribute causing "argument list too long"
using grep to search for hex strings in a file
file conversion and removing special characters from a file 
bash - convert list of hex values to binary file (application)
something wrong when i exec a script with perl (ubuntu10.10)
redirect stderr to stdout in c shell
how can i write a shell script to display the below output? 1
writing a bash script that performs operations that require root permissions
how do i pipe in command run using backtick?
grep +a: print everything after match
dialog from bash script
how to get yardoc to output to stdout?
hadoop 2.2.0 streaming memory limitation
how to use all of the flash memory on an embedded unix system
does sed -n '1s/pattern/substitute/p' parse the whole file or quit after line 1?
creating indented text with bash
linux scripting with a variable referring to id's in a text file or mass citrix vm snapshot delete
`yes` in ubuntu
hudson : "yes: standard output: broken pipe"
enter a letter when prompted by another command
writing shell script using another shell script
enter a letter when prompted by another command
auto yes to raid5 array script
bypass yes/no 
run bash script without input
are unix/linux pipes producer or consumer driven?
bypass "do you want to continue (y/n, default n)" for "setup.py"?
auto yes to raid5 array script
how does "(head; tail)  leftanglebrc  file" work?
how to use all of the flash memory on an embedded unix system
odd behaviour in removing .git
bash: read stdin from file and write stdout to file
unix script to convert queries
bash: get the characters after the last index of a substring from a string
remove lines containing a number less than/greater than a limit?
formatting awk output
grep a list of files from a file and print specific part of the line with condition
bash csv sorting and unique-ing
bash,how convert logger script to a function
bash script - store stderr in variable
kill specific process on ssh greater than one minute
bash script inputting multiple variables
how to automate a vnc+ssh solution
how to compose custom command-line argument from file lines?
how to compose custom command-line argument from file lines?
how to compose custom command-line argument from file lines?
bash executing the result of a command
printing the last field on the last line
how to save specific command output to a variable in sh?
shell string manipulation
replace ip address with hostname using sed or other command-line tool
deleting all characters before a token in a stream of multi-line text file
combine results of column one then sum column 2 to list total for each entry in column one
combine results of column one then sum column 2 to list total for each entry in column one
how to share the screen output of a running process?
export from sqlite to csv using shell script
how to transmit more than 2048 chars to *.sh script in ksh?
processing arguments from file/cli/stdin 
cut command to delimit the output and add them
manipulating the output string 
manipulating the output string 
mixing ruby and bash commands -- mv returns "x and y are the same file"
how to find two values in file and use theese as variables?
redirect stderr and stdout in a bash script
sed: save errors in a file
bash variable timeout if not aquired in x time
init script '/dev/tty: no such device or address' error on redirect
how to handle vulcan response from bash script
how to run command in the background and notify me via email when done
extract text from output and convert to csv
how to run command in the background and notify me via email when done
bash, regex, return the matched regular expression(s)
how to run command in the background and notify me via email when done
restarting apache without being superuser
replacing awk with bash built-ins
run bash with see the prints made by echo in script
shell script: create new bash processes
shell script: create new bash processes
use youtube-dl to download new videos from channel
shell script to download youtube files from playlist
shell script to download youtube files from playlist
too many arguments error  script
using awk print all lines after a regular expression and change output field separator
ignoring an error message from yum command  leftsquarebrc when package is already installed rightsquarebrc  - bash
ignoring an error message from yum command  leftsquarebrc when package is already installed rightsquarebrc  - bash
how to ignore responses  terminal?
how to get just a list of yum updates
trying to build rdiff-backup, getting error "/usr/bin/ld: cannot find -lrsync"
adding support for scp and sftp for curl on linux
sphinx installation error
pecl and php build directory
postgresql - pg_config -bash: pg_config: command not found
find os number of updates available
postgresql - pg_config -bash: pg_config: command not found
using the output of a 'grep search' as the input of a 'yum update' (shell script)
source code  shell utility pidof
formatting a string column in csv in a sybase understandable date time format
how can one create and then use an alias in a function of a sourced bash script?
redirect bash output to python script
how to unzip all .gz files in a folder and combine them into a new file without generating uncompressed files for each .gz file
how to unzip all .gz files in a folder and combine them into a new file without generating uncompressed files for each .gz file
bash command with multiple input files
awk improve command - count & sum
reading line by line the contents of an 80gb .gz file without uncompressing it
is there an efficient way to read line input ?
awk to improve formatting file :
awk to improve formatting file :
split a large, compressed file into multiple outputs using awk and bash
is there a version of tac that gunzips the content? (like zcat)
why does gpg store different things in a bash var compared to a file
gzip: merge a set of small files ( leftanglebrc 64mb) into several larger files (64mb or 128mb)
how can i use $nautilus_script_selected_file_paths
space separated arguments 
bash - file selection by multiple patterns in zenity
does zenity have a limited list size?
assigning output of zenity to a variable
what is the opposite of && ?
asterisk is not working inside a script
find string inside a gzipped file in a folder
why do i get this error using {1..9} in zsh?
unable to search manuals fast without opening them in zsh
grepping regex from zipped file
grepping regex from zipped file
reading line by line the contents of an 80gb .gz file without uncompressing it
zip files with whitespaces in name/folder
zip files with whitespaces in name/folder
zip recursively each file in a dir, where the name of the file has spaces in it
zip files with whitespaces in name/folder
how to compress multiple folders, each into its own zip archive?
how to zip particular folders  using shell
is that possible to get backup from vps by shell access?
how to zip a file using cmd line?
getting bash variable into filename for zip command
bash zip script
linux command variable substitution. assistance is appreciated
script to zip a file and change it's owenrships
ftp zip script - stuck
how to disable 'zip' warning ?
edit file without unzipping archive
bash: passing params from $3 onwards to another program (say tar)
how to zip more than one file in one folder 
create zip file fedora 17
how to zip specified folders with 
use pattern history search, but gracefully degrade to non-pattern history search in older zsh versions
how to move the cursor position in zsh widget definition
cat after command in zmap
replacing filenames with parent folder name without changing file endings
how to use an alias or function in zsh to check for a socket and run the appropriate command?
unable to make a backward tab as shift-tab in zsh
how to rename large number of files
how to copy permissions from source folder into destination?
zsh prompt line position not shifting with window resizing
zsh tab completion categories
how to disable table key in iterm2
zsh: smart autocompletion feature?
can zsh do smartcase completion like vim's search?
zsh tab-completion for "cd .."
how to limit the subset of git commands that zsh will auto-complete (with tab)?
how does the zsh list-colors syntax work?
how does the zsh list-colors syntax work?
how does the zsh list-colors syntax work?
how does the zsh list-colors syntax work?
how does the zsh list-colors syntax work?
how does the zsh list-colors syntax work?
find os number of updates available
perl-oneliner to bash
how to output awk result to file
how to output awk result to file
how to chop last n bytes of a string  string choping?
pass multiple arguments to bash script
how does shell eval work?
substituting a string in place of variable 
using a variable's value to use that variables value
assign  argument to variable 
how to loop argument in sh shell
lookup shell variables by name, indirectly
storing bash output into a variable using eval
passing a shell script as user-data in amazon aws ec2 request-spot-instances
how to chop last n bytes of a string  string choping?
how to batch files ?
bash command works in interactive shell but not in script
length of string 
executing script variable by variable
bash shell script variable assignment
bash script to check file name begins with expected string
how to chop last n bytes of a string  string choping?
explanation of convertor of cidr to netmask  netmask2cdir and cdir2netmask
how can i append and prepend some text to all files in a folder 
creating categories on jekyll driven site
bash globbing - autoexpand for a few specific cases?
invoking shell from java, it complaints "stty: standard input: invalid argument"
regarding a shell script
unix script using sed
shell string bad substitution
pitfalls in renaming files 
remove slash from the end of a variable
understanding script language
how to skip a particular number when iterate over a range sequence number?
find and replace string in parameter bash
to sum column with condition
how does bash parameter expansion work?
how to set a variable to default value?
set default user variable  scripting
bash substring and positional parameters
bash expression evaluation order on 
bash expression evaluation order on 
how can i use sed to find the lines that start with "x", then find and replace inside this line using perl?
zsh: parameter expansion inserting quotes
how to delete all but two instances of a file?
deploying postgresql with bash - syntax error
awk scripts and backslashes
awk scripts and backslashes
insert with sed
bash script grep for pattern in variable of text
how to pass numeric array from bash to csh
pass a full bash script line to another bash function to execute
how can i output different shades of green to the terminal?
bash completion for maven escapes colon
how to modify a file name within a shell script?
concat variables in heredoc
recover after bash trap
how can i use bash to parse out only a section of a variable with different delimiters?
replace spaces in ksh with sed
for file in permission denied & ambiguous redirect
jenkins substring environment variable
trying to understand a simple linux code
do i simply delete the bashrc 'return' command?
regarding usage of hostname in rabbitmq's bash script
using the internal field separator with curl
setting an argument with bash
bash - how to remove trailing "/bin/java" ?
running a command 
escaping characters  (for json)
values in a variable need to be assigned 1:1 like in an array, but not working
bash scripts hyphen operator and square brackets
bash scripts hyphen operator and square brackets
execute the shell script that is in the current directory, not the one in $path
can't rename file 
how to pass the value for djava.security.policy
one liner to set environment variable if doesn't exist, else append
sh: how to extend environment variables?
script with lsof works well on shell not on cron
bash shell sys.path.append problem
adding mysql to my .bashrc path
bash - $path and ${path}
how to create the option for printing out statements vs executing them in a shell script
catching errors  with glassfish commands  leftsquarebrc return code in pipes rightsquarebrc 
how to get a part of the patch where script located?
removing first letters in a string using bash under cgi
bash script variable
append two new lines before additional text using sed
explanation of this use of the colon operator
shell script variable structure
bash script: can't execute mencoder command!
why is this bash/curl call to rest services giving inconsistent results with parameters?
assigning default values to shell variables with a single command 
assigning default values to shell variables with a single command 
how to replace string that contains a variable, the next string that contains variables
postactivate script for auto-changing to project directory
how do zsh ansi colour codes work?
why is using string substitiution to form a regex not working?
bash variable substitution
extract digits from bash variable
extract digits from bash variable
how can i get the parent path base on an environment variable
extracting data fields from the output of a command using bash
how to extract the value 2 from b="a=2" and assign it to variable a 
bash or-equals ||= like ruby
re : open matlab function from  linux
how to delete every character after a space?
print output to json format
removing extension from file without knowing it
naming a tar file with date
naming a tar file with date
how can i generate a list of directories, while ignoring .war files?
bash: put list files into a variable and but size of array is 1
what does the curly-brace syntax mean ?
bash scripting, how to remove trailing substring, case insensitive?
erlang: how to access cli flags (arguments) as application environment variables?
linux bash: delete the word whose length is less than 2
file name without extension  for loop
how to change file extension  script?
how do i write some (bash) shell script to convert all matching filenames in directory to command-line options?
pitfalls in renaming files 
, how to strip out all numbers in the file names in a directory while leaving the file extension intact
, how to strip out all numbers in the file names in a directory while leaving the file extension intact
bash script to update postgres database
storing the first 4 characters of a filename into a variable
bash basename syntax
parse result of `ls -l` with bash script
understanding shell script-- ifs, '' , ##
how do i manipulate filenames ?
parse result of `ls -l` with bash script
understanding shell script-- ifs, '' , ##
bash string replacement with regex repetition
parse result of `ls -l` with bash script
variable interpolation 
how can i trim "/" using shell scripting?
take token from this bash string/array...not sure which it is
take token from this bash string/array...not sure which it is
bash loop involving variables not working
bash - reading multiple input files and creating matching output files by name and sequence
(unix shell scripting) unzip multiple zip files, rename unzipped file following zip file name
bash script commands executed twice
how to pass variable's values in multiline string shellscript
how to add input into a website that is retrieved by shell script so that the out can be printed out?
unexpected token 'done' error in for loop shell scripting
unexpected token 'done' error in for loop shell scripting
bash script commands executed twice
error in attempting to parallel task of a bash script
want to read variable value from remote file
create associative array  3
building a string
shell script error
awk: loop & save different lines to different files?
extracting text from line
extracting text from line
how to replace a line in the same file by sed  scripting?
how connect variable with a string ?
re : open matlab function from  linux
adding arguments to options in rsync
differentiate between 2 and 02  script
how to extract the nth occurrence of a pattern from a zsh variable?
how to extract the nth occurrence of a pattern from a zsh variable?
unix - setting string variable with other variables inside
unix - setting string variable with other variables inside
how to assign value of variable with regex (bash)?
confusing statement 
what does the special form ${varname:-text} do ?
bash colon operator in variable substitution?
what is the difference when assigning a bash variable value with this syntax?
what does the special form ${varname:-text} do ?
what does the special form ${varname:-text} do ?
what's the best way to check that environment variables are set script
grab the filename  out of full path
about the linux shell 'while' command
awk, setting fs="," does not seem to work, are there caveats i should know of?
awk, setting fs="," does not seem to work, are there caveats i should know of?
pass parameter to an awk script file
awk, declare array embracing fnr and field, output
awk split var twice
count files occurences linux
sed replace every nth occurrence
is json safe to use as a  argument or does it need to be sanitized first?
bash- parse a word if a symbol exists
how to execute shell script from the python?
the @ in a for loop while using scp
bash: how can i distinguish a sign char from the name of the variable?
extract number from string 
how to pass the value for djava.security.policy
how to assign value of variable with regex (bash)?
pick random from top 30% of int array
bash script to check file name begins with expected string
bash cd .. returns nothing
package bash script in "executable" for double-click execution (ideally platform independent)?
easy way to spilt a string like this ?
what is the meaning of the ${0##...} syntax with variable, braces and hash character ?
take token from this bash string/array...not sure which it is
zsh variable substitution in adam explanation
bash: accessing last x characters of string
12345678 = 123 45 67 8 
shell scripting string replace using shell variables
want to read variable value from remote file
converting a bash command output into json and serving it over http on the fly
linux shell: unexpected eof while looking for matching `"'
linux shell: unexpected eof while looking for matching `"'
, how to strip out all numbers in the file names in a directory while leaving the file extension intact
how to get bc to handle numbers in scientific (aka exponential) notation?
how can i split a string into two with posix sh?
manipulate string 
explain ${var:-val} and ${var+val}
remove whitespace from bash variable
remove non-ascii characters from a variable 
copying a part of fullpath variable and use that part to construct another different fullpath variable 
copying a part of fullpath variable and use that part to construct another different fullpath variable 
bash: does it support conditional variables like var="test"?"1":"2"
explain ${var:-val} and ${var+val}
, how to strip out all numbers in the file names in a directory while leaving the file extension intact
can i use sed to manipulate a variable ?
explanation of convertor of cidr to netmask  netmask2cdir and cdir2netmask
.bash_profile corrupted not found, command not found... help restore it back to the original
read into variables from a variable
 progress bar in java
 progress bar in java
what's android adb shell 'dumpsys' tool and it's benefits?
having problems redirecting stderr to a subshell created w/process substitution
having problems redirecting stderr to a subshell created w/process substitution
executing own unix command in terminal?
building r packages using alternate gcc
bash alias to rbenv shim
pythonbrew install zsh on ubuntu
ruby, bundle, ssh and jenkins
passing a bash exit code into another script from .bashrc
run bash script upon ssh
function defined in .zshrc not found when called from a script
use datestring in a filename to create folder directory and move files
make executable erlang program on the mac terminal
linux take out string from file and use it as file name?
linux take out string from file and use it as file name?
how can i make the "find" command on os x default to the current directory?
why do i get "unexpected token `;'?
is there a gitx equivalent for subversion that allows command-line execution?
using awk printf to urldecode text
auth on ngrok event not found
auth on ngrok event not found
explain this command: . ~/nvm/nvm.sh
how do i prevent tar from overwriting an existing archive?
"ambiguous output redirect" trying to send both stdout and stderr to mailx from a command sent to at
